<h2>CHAPTER IX.<br/>
DR. BAUERSTEIN</h2>

I had had no opportunity as yet of passing on Poirot&rsquo;s message to
Lawrence. But now, as I strolled out on the lawn, still nursing a grudge
against my friend&rsquo;s high-handedness, I saw Lawrence on the croquet lawn,
aimlessly knocking a couple of very ancient balls about, with a still more
ancient mallet.

It struck me that it would be a good opportunity to deliver my message.
Otherwise, Poirot himself might relieve me of it. It was true that I did not
quite gather its purport, but I flattered myself that by Lawrence&rsquo;s
reply, and perhaps a little skillful cross-examination on my part, I should
soon perceive its significance. Accordingly I accosted him.

&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve been looking for you,&rdquo; I remarked untruthfully.

&ldquo;Have you?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes. The truth is, I&rsquo;ve got a message for you&mdash;from
Poirot.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;

&ldquo;He told me to wait until I was alone with you,&rdquo; I said, dropping
my voice significantly, and watching him intently out of the corner of my eye.
I have always been rather good at what is called, I believe, creating an
atmosphere.

&ldquo;Well?&rdquo;

There was no change of expression in the dark melancholic face. Had he any idea
of what I was about to say?

&ldquo;This is the message.&rdquo; I dropped my voice still lower.
&ldquo;&lsquo;Find the extra coffee-cup, and you can rest in
peace.&rsquo;&rdquo;

&ldquo;What on earth does he mean?&rdquo; Lawrence stared at me in quite
unaffected astonishment.

&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you know?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not in the least. Do you?&rdquo;

I was compelled to shake my head.

&ldquo;What extra coffee-cup?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know.&rdquo;

&ldquo;He&rsquo;d better ask Dorcas, or one of the maids, if he wants to know
about coffee-cups. It&rsquo;s their business, not mine. I don&rsquo;t know
anything about the coffee-cups, except that we&rsquo;ve got some that are never
used, which are a perfect dream! Old Worcester. You&rsquo;re not a connoisseur,
are you, Hastings?&rdquo;

I shook my head.

&ldquo;You miss a lot. A really perfect bit of old china&mdash;it&rsquo;s pure
delight to handle it, or even to look at it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, what am I to tell Poirot?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Tell him I don&rsquo;t know what he&rsquo;s talking about. It&rsquo;s
double Dutch to me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;All right.&rdquo;

I was moving off towards the house again when he suddenly called me back.

&ldquo;I say, what was the end of that message? Say it over again, will
you?&rdquo;

&ldquo;&lsquo;Find the extra coffee-cup, and you can rest in peace.&rsquo; Are
you sure you don&rsquo;t know what it means?&rdquo; I asked him earnestly.

He shook his head.

&ldquo;No,&rdquo; he said musingly, &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t. I&mdash;I wish I
did.&rdquo;

The boom of the gong sounded from the house, and we went in together. Poirot
had been asked by John to remain to lunch, and was already seated at the table.

By tacit consent, all mention of the tragedy was barred. We conversed on the
war, and other outside topics. But after the cheese and biscuits had been
handed round, and Dorcas had left the room, Poirot suddenly leant forward to
Mrs. Cavendish.

&ldquo;Pardon me, madame, for recalling unpleasant memories, but I have a
little idea&rdquo;&mdash;Poirot&rsquo;s &ldquo;little ideas&rdquo; were
becoming a perfect byword&mdash;&ldquo;and would like to ask one or two
questions.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Of me? Certainly.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You are too amiable, madame. What I want to ask is this: the door
leading into Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s room from that of Mademoiselle Cynthia, it
was bolted, you say?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Certainly it was bolted,&rdquo; replied Mary Cavendish, rather
surprised. &ldquo;I said so at the inquest.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Bolted?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo; She looked perplexed.

&ldquo;I mean,&rdquo; explained Poirot, &ldquo;you are sure it was bolted, and
not merely locked?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, I see what you mean. No, I don&rsquo;t know. I said bolted, meaning
that it was fastened, and I could not open it, but I believe all the doors were
found bolted on the inside.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Still, as far as you are concerned, the door might equally well have
been locked?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, yes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You yourself did not happen to notice, madame, when you entered Mrs.
Inglethorp&rsquo;s room, whether that door was bolted or not?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I&mdash;I believe it was.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But you did not see it?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No. I&mdash;never looked.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But *I* did,&rdquo; interrupted Lawrence suddenly. &ldquo;I happened to
notice that it *was* bolted.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ah, that settles it.&rdquo; And Poirot looked crestfallen.

I could not help rejoicing that, for once, one of his &ldquo;little
ideas&rdquo; had come to naught.

After lunch Poirot begged me to accompany him home. I consented rather stiffly.

&ldquo;You are annoyed, is it not so?&rdquo; he asked anxiously, as we walked
through the park.

&ldquo;Not at all,&rdquo; I said coldly.

&ldquo;That is well. That lifts a great load from my mind.&rdquo;

This was not quite what I had intended. I had hoped that he would have observed
the stiffness of my manner. Still, the fervour of his words went towards the
appeasing of my just displeasure. I thawed.

&ldquo;I gave Lawrence your message,&rdquo; I said.

&ldquo;And what did he say? He was entirely puzzled?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes. I am quite sure he had no idea of what you meant.&rdquo;

I had expected Poirot to be disappointed; but, to my surprise, he replied that
that was as he had thought, and that he was very glad. My pride forbade me to
ask any questions.

Poirot switched off on another tack.

&ldquo;Mademoiselle Cynthia was not at lunch to-day? How was that?&rdquo;

&ldquo;She is at the hospital again. She resumed work to-day.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ah, she is an industrious little demoiselle. And pretty too. She is like
pictures I have seen in Italy. I would rather like to see that dispensary of
hers. Do you think she would show it to me?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I am sure she would be delighted. It&rsquo;s an interesting little
place.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Does she go there every day?&rdquo;

&ldquo;She has all Wednesdays off, and comes back to lunch on Saturdays. Those
are her only times off.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I will remember. Women are doing great work nowadays, and Mademoiselle
Cynthia is clever&mdash;oh, yes, she has brains, that little one.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes. I believe she has passed quite a stiff exam.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Without doubt. After all, it is very responsible work. I suppose they
have very strong poisons there?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, she showed them to us. They are kept locked up in a little
cupboard. I believe they have to be very careful. They always take out the key
before leaving the room.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Indeed. It is near the window, this cupboard?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, right the other side of the room. Why?&rdquo;

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

&ldquo;I wondered. That is all. Will you come in?&rdquo;

We had reached the cottage.

&ldquo;No. I think I&rsquo;ll be getting back. I shall go round the long way
through the woods.&rdquo;

The woods round Styles were very beautiful. After the walk across the open
park, it was pleasant to saunter lazily through the cool glades. There was
hardly a breath of wind, the very chirp of the birds was faint and subdued. I
strolled on a little way, and finally flung myself down at the foot of a grand
old beech-tree. My thoughts of mankind were kindly and charitable. I even
forgave Poirot for his absurd secrecy. In fact, I was at peace with the world.
Then I yawned.

I thought about the crime, and it struck me as being very unreal and far off.

I yawned again.

Probably, I thought, it really never happened. Of course, it was all a bad
dream. The truth of the matter was that it was Lawrence who had murdered Alfred
Inglethorp with a croquet mallet. But it was absurd of John to make such a fuss
about it, and to go shouting out: &ldquo;I tell you I won&rsquo;t have
it!&rdquo;

I woke up with a start.

At once I realized that I was in a very awkward predicament. For, about twelve
feet away from me, John and Mary Cavendish were standing facing each other, and
they were evidently quarrelling. And, quite as evidently, they were unaware of
my vicinity, for before I could move or speak John repeated the words which had
aroused me from my dream.

&ldquo;I tell you, Mary, I won&rsquo;t have it.&rdquo;

Mary&rsquo;s voice came, cool and liquid:

&ldquo;Have *you* any right to criticize my actions?&rdquo;

&ldquo;It will be the talk of the village! My mother was only buried on
Saturday, and here you are gadding about with the fellow.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh,&rdquo; she shrugged her shoulders, &ldquo;if it is only village
gossip that you mind!&rdquo;

&ldquo;But it isn&rsquo;t. I&rsquo;ve had enough of the fellow hanging about.
He&rsquo;s a Polish Jew, anyway.&rdquo;

&ldquo;A tinge of Jewish blood is not a bad thing. It leavens
the&rdquo;&mdash;she looked at him&mdash;&ldquo;stolid stupidity of the
ordinary Englishman.&rdquo;

Fire in her eyes, ice in her voice. I did not wonder that the blood rose to
John&rsquo;s face in a crimson tide.

&ldquo;Mary!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well?&rdquo; Her tone did not change.

The pleading died out of his voice.

&ldquo;Am I to understand that you will continue to see Bauerstein against my
express wishes?&rdquo;

&ldquo;If I choose.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You defy me?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, but I deny your right to criticize my actions. Have *you* no
friends of whom I should disapprove?&rdquo;

John fell back a pace. The colour ebbed slowly from his face.

&ldquo;What do you mean?&rdquo; he said, in an unsteady voice.

&ldquo;You see!&rdquo; said Mary quietly. &ldquo;You *do* see, don&rsquo;t
you, that *you* have no right to dictate to *me* as to the choice of
my friends?&rdquo;

John glanced at her pleadingly, a stricken look on his face.

&ldquo;No right? Have I *no* right, Mary?&rdquo; he said unsteadily. He
stretched out his hands. &ldquo;Mary&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

For a moment, I thought she wavered. A softer expression came over her face,
then suddenly she turned almost fiercely away.

&ldquo;None!&rdquo;

She was walking away when John sprang after her, and caught her by the arm.

&ldquo;Mary&rdquo;&mdash;his voice was very quiet now&mdash;&ldquo;are you in
love with this fellow Bauerstein?&rdquo;

She hesitated, and suddenly there swept across her face a strange expression,
old as the hills, yet with something eternally young about it. So might some
Egyptian sphinx have smiled.

She freed herself quietly from his arm, and spoke over her shoulder.

&ldquo;Perhaps,&rdquo; she said; and then swiftly passed out of the little
glade, leaving John standing there as though he had been turned to stone.

Rather ostentatiously, I stepped forward, crackling some dead branches with my
feet as I did so. John turned. Luckily, he took it for granted that I had only
just come upon the scene.

&ldquo;Hullo, Hastings. Have you seen the little fellow safely back to his
cottage? Quaint little chap! Is he any good, though, really?&rdquo;

&ldquo;He was considered one of the finest detectives of his day.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, well, I suppose there must be something in it, then. What a rotten
world it is, though!&rdquo;

&ldquo;You find it so?&rdquo; I asked.

&ldquo;Good Lord, yes! There&rsquo;s this terrible business to start with.
Scotland Yard men in and out of the house like a jack-in-the-box! Never know
where they won&rsquo;t turn up next. Screaming headlines in every paper in the
country&mdash;damn all journalists, I say! Do you know there was a whole crowd
staring in at the lodge gates this morning. Sort of Madame Tussaud&rsquo;s
chamber of horrors business that can be seen for nothing. Pretty thick,
isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Cheer up, John!&rdquo; I said soothingly. &ldquo;It can&rsquo;t last for
ever.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Can&rsquo;t it, though? It can last long enough for us never to be able
to hold up our heads again.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, no, you&rsquo;re getting morbid on the subject.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Enough to make a man morbid, to be stalked by beastly journalists and
stared at by gaping moon-faced idiots, wherever he goes! But there&rsquo;s
worse than that.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What?&rdquo;

John lowered his voice:

&ldquo;Have you ever thought, Hastings&mdash;it&rsquo;s a nightmare to
me&mdash;who did it? I can&rsquo;t help feeling sometimes it must have been an
accident. Because&mdash;because&mdash;who could have done it? Now
Inglethorp&rsquo;s out of the way, there&rsquo;s no one else; no one, I mean,
except&mdash;one of us.&rdquo;

Yes, indeed, that was nightmare enough for any man! One of us? Yes, surely it
must be so, unless&mdash;&mdash;-

A new idea suggested itself to my mind. Rapidly, I considered it. The light
increased. Poirot&rsquo;s mysterious doings, his hints&mdash;they all fitted
in. Fool that I was not to have thought of this possibility before, and what a
relief for us all.

&ldquo;No, John,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;it isn&rsquo;t one of us. How could it
be?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I know, but, still, who else is there?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Can&rsquo;t you guess?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No.&rdquo;

I looked cautiously round, and lowered my voice.

&ldquo;Dr. Bauerstein!&rdquo; I whispered.

&ldquo;Impossible!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not at all.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But what earthly interest could he have in my mother&rsquo;s
death?&rdquo;

&ldquo;That I don&rsquo;t see,&rdquo; I confessed, &ldquo;but I&rsquo;ll tell
you this: Poirot thinks so.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Poirot? Does he? How do you know?&rdquo;

I told him of Poirot&rsquo;s intense excitement on hearing that Dr. Bauerstein
had been at Styles on the fatal night, and added:

&ldquo;He said twice: &lsquo;That alters everything.&rsquo; And I&rsquo;ve been
thinking. You know Inglethorp said he had put down the coffee in the hall?
Well, it was just then that Bauerstein arrived. Isn&rsquo;t it possible that,
as Inglethorp brought him through the hall, the doctor dropped something into
the coffee in passing?&rdquo;

&ldquo;H&rsquo;m,&rdquo; said John. &ldquo;It would have been very
risky.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, but it was possible.&rdquo;

&ldquo;And then, how could he know it was her coffee? No, old fellow, I
don&rsquo;t think that will wash.&rdquo;

But I had remembered something else.

&ldquo;You&rsquo;re quite right. That wasn&rsquo;t how it was done.
Listen.&rdquo; And I then told him of the cocoa sample which Poirot had taken
to be analysed.

John interrupted just as I had done.

&ldquo;But, look here, Bauerstein had had it analysed already?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, yes, that&rsquo;s the point. I didn&rsquo;t see it either until
now. Don&rsquo;t you understand? Bauerstein had it analysed&mdash;that&rsquo;s
just it! If Bauerstein&rsquo;s the murderer, nothing could be simpler than for
him to substitute some ordinary cocoa for his sample, and send that to be
tested. And of course they would find no strychnine! But no one would dream of
suspecting Bauerstein, or think of taking another sample&mdash;except
Poirot,&rdquo; I added, with belated recognition.

&ldquo;Yes, but what about the bitter taste that cocoa won&rsquo;t
disguise?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, we&rsquo;ve only his word for that. And there are other
possibilities. He&rsquo;s admittedly one of the world&rsquo;s greatest
toxicologists&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

&ldquo;One of the world&rsquo;s greatest what? Say it again.&rdquo;

&ldquo;He knows more about poisons than almost anybody,&rdquo; I explained.
&ldquo;Well, my idea is, that perhaps he&rsquo;s found some way of making
strychnine tasteless. Or it may not have been strychnine at all, but some
obscure drug no one has ever heard of, which produces much the same
symptoms.&rdquo;

&ldquo;H&rsquo;m, yes, that might be,&rdquo; said John. &ldquo;But look here,
how could he have got at the cocoa? That wasn&rsquo;t downstairs?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, it wasn&rsquo;t,&rdquo; I admitted reluctantly.

And then, suddenly, a dreadful possibility flashed through my mind. I hoped and
prayed it would not occur to John also. I glanced sideways at him. He was
frowning perplexedly, and I drew a deep breath of relief, for the terrible
thought that had flashed across my mind was this: that Dr. Bauerstein might
have had an accomplice.

Yet surely it could not be! Surely no woman as beautiful as Mary Cavendish
could be a murderess. Yet beautiful women had been known to poison.

And suddenly I remembered that first conversation at tea on the day of my
arrival, and the gleam in her eyes as she had said that poison was a
woman&rsquo;s weapon. How agitated she had been on that fatal Tuesday evening!
Had Mrs. Inglethorp discovered something between her and Bauerstein, and
threatened to tell her husband? Was it to stop that denunciation that the crime
had been committed?

Then I remembered that enigmatical conversation between Poirot and Evelyn
Howard. Was this what they had meant? Was this the monstrous possibility that
Evelyn had tried not to believe?

Yes, it all fitted in.

No wonder Miss Howard had suggested &ldquo;hushing it up.&rdquo; Now I
understood that unfinished sentence of hers: &ldquo;Emily
herself&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo; And in my heart I agreed with her. Would not Mrs.
Inglethorp have preferred to go unavenged rather than have such terrible
dishonour fall upon the name of Cavendish.

&ldquo;There&rsquo;s another thing,&rdquo; said John suddenly, and the
unexpected sound of his voice made me start guiltily. &ldquo;Something which
makes me doubt if what you say can be true.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What&rsquo;s that?&rdquo; I asked, thankful that he had gone away from
the subject of how the poison could have been introduced into the cocoa.

&ldquo;Why, the fact that Bauerstein demanded a post-mortem. He needn&rsquo;t
have done so. Little Wilkins would have been quite content to let it go at
heart disease.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes,&rdquo; I said doubtfully. &ldquo;But we don&rsquo;t know. Perhaps
he thought it safer in the long run. Someone might have talked afterwards. Then
the Home Office might have ordered exhumation. The whole thing would have come
out, then, and he would have been in an awkward position, for no one would have
believed that a man of his reputation could have been deceived into calling it
heart disease.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, that&rsquo;s possible,&rdquo; admitted John. &ldquo;Still,&rdquo;
he added, &ldquo;I&rsquo;m blest if I can see what his motive could have
been.&rdquo;

I trembled.

&ldquo;Look here,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;I may be altogether wrong. And,
remember, all this is in confidence.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, of course&mdash;that goes without saying.&rdquo;

We had walked, as we talked, and now we passed through the little gate into the
garden. Voices rose near at hand, for tea was spread out under the
sycamore-tree, as it had been on the day of my arrival.

Cynthia was back from the hospital, and I placed my chair beside her, and told
her of Poirot&rsquo;s wish to visit the dispensary.

&ldquo;Of course! I&rsquo;d love him to see it. He&rsquo;d better come to tea
there one day. I must fix it up with him. He&rsquo;s such a dear little man!
But he *is* funny. He made me take the brooch out of my tie the other day,
and put it in again, because he said it wasn&rsquo;t straight.&rdquo;

I laughed.

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s quite a mania with him.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;

We were silent for a minute or two, and then, glancing in the direction of Mary
Cavendish, and dropping her voice, Cynthia said:

&ldquo;Mr. Hastings.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;

&ldquo;After tea, I want to talk to you.&rdquo;

Her glance at Mary had set me thinking. I fancied that between these two there
existed very little sympathy. For the first time, it occurred to me to wonder
about the girl&rsquo;s future. Mrs. Inglethorp had made no provisions of any
kind for her, but I imagined that John and Mary would probably insist on her
making her home with them&mdash;at any rate until the end of the war. John, I
knew, was very fond of her, and would be sorry to let her go.

John, who had gone into the house, now reappeared. His good-natured face wore
an unaccustomed frown of anger.

&ldquo;Confound those detectives! I can&rsquo;t think what they&rsquo;re after!
They&rsquo;ve been in every room in the house&mdash;turning things inside out,
and upside down. It really is too bad! I suppose they took advantage of our all
being out. I shall go for that fellow Japp, when I next see him!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Lot of Paul Prys,&rdquo; grunted Miss Howard.

Lawrence opined that they had to make a show of doing something.

Mary Cavendish said nothing.

After tea, I invited Cynthia to come for a walk, and we sauntered off into the
woods together.

&ldquo;Well?&rdquo; I inquired, as soon as we were protected from prying eyes
by the leafy screen.

With a sigh, Cynthia flung herself down, and tossed off her hat. The sunlight,
piercing through the branches, turned the auburn of her hair to quivering gold.

&ldquo;Mr. Hastings&mdash;you are always so kind, and you know such a
lot.&rdquo;

It struck me at this moment that Cynthia was really a very charming girl! Much
more charming than Mary, who never said things of that kind.

&ldquo;Well?&rdquo; I asked benignantly, as she hesitated.

&ldquo;I want to ask your advice. What shall I do?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Do?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes. You see, Aunt Emily always told me I should be provided for. I
suppose she forgot, or didn&rsquo;t think she was likely to die&mdash;anyway, I
am *not* provided for! And I don&rsquo;t know what to do. Do you think I
ought to go away from here at once?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Good heavens, no! They don&rsquo;t want to part with you, I&rsquo;m
sure.&rdquo;

Cynthia hesitated a moment, plucking up the grass with her tiny hands. Then she
said: &ldquo;Mrs. Cavendish does. She hates me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Hates you?&rdquo; I cried, astonished.

Cynthia nodded.

&ldquo;Yes. I don&rsquo;t know why, but she can&rsquo;t bear me; and *he*
can&rsquo;t, either.&rdquo;

&ldquo;There I know you&rsquo;re wrong,&rdquo; I said warmly. &ldquo;On the
contrary, John is very fond of you.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, yes&mdash;*John*. I meant Lawrence. Not, of course, that I care
whether Lawrence hates me or not. Still, it&rsquo;s rather horrid when no one
loves you, isn&rsquo;t it?&rdquo;

&ldquo;But they do, Cynthia dear,&rdquo; I said earnestly. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m
sure you are mistaken. Look, there is John&mdash;and Miss Howard&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

Cynthia nodded rather gloomily. &ldquo;Yes, John likes me, I think, and of
course Evie, for all her gruff ways, wouldn&rsquo;t be unkind to a fly. But
Lawrence never speaks to me if he can help it, and Mary can hardly bring
herself to be civil to me. She wants Evie to stay on, is begging her to, but
she doesn&rsquo;t want me, and&mdash;and&mdash;I don&rsquo;t know what to
do.&rdquo; Suddenly the poor child burst out crying.

I don&rsquo;t know what possessed me. Her beauty, perhaps, as she sat there,
with the sunlight glinting down on her head; perhaps the sense of relief at
encountering someone who so obviously could have no connection with the
tragedy; perhaps honest pity for her youth and loneliness. Anyway, I leant
forward, and taking her little hand, I said awkwardly:

&ldquo;Marry me, Cynthia.&rdquo;

Unwittingly, I had hit upon a sovereign remedy for her tears. She sat up at
once, drew her hand away, and said, with some asperity:

&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t be silly!&rdquo;

I was a little annoyed.

&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not being silly. I am asking you to do me the honour of
becoming my wife.&rdquo;

To my intense surprise, Cynthia burst out laughing, and called me a
&ldquo;funny dear.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s perfectly sweet of you,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;but you know
you don&rsquo;t want to!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, I do. I&rsquo;ve got&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

&ldquo;Never mind what you&rsquo;ve got. You don&rsquo;t really want
to&mdash;and I don&rsquo;t either.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, of course, that settles it,&rdquo; I said stiffly. &ldquo;But I
don&rsquo;t see anything to laugh at. There&rsquo;s nothing funny about a
proposal.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, indeed,&rdquo; said Cynthia. &ldquo;Somebody might accept you next
time. Good-bye, you&rsquo;ve cheered me up *very* much.&rdquo;

And, with a final uncontrollable burst of merriment, she vanished through the
trees.

Thinking over the interview, it struck me as being profoundly unsatisfactory.

It occurred to me suddenly that I would go down to the village, and look up
Bauerstein. Somebody ought to be keeping an eye on the fellow. At the same
time, it would be wise to allay any suspicions he might have as to his being
suspected. I remembered how Poirot had relied on my diplomacy. Accordingly, I
went to the little house with the &ldquo;Apartments&rdquo; card inserted in the
window, where I knew he lodged, and tapped on the door.

An old woman came and opened it.

&ldquo;Good afternoon,&rdquo; I said pleasantly. &ldquo;Is Dr. Bauerstein
in?&rdquo;

She stared at me.

&ldquo;Haven&rsquo;t you heard?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Heard what?&rdquo;

&ldquo;About him.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What about him?&rdquo;

&ldquo;He&rsquo;s took.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Took? Dead?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, took by the perlice.&rdquo;

&ldquo;By the police!&rdquo; I gasped. &ldquo;Do you mean they&rsquo;ve
arrested him?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, that&rsquo;s it, and&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

I waited to hear no more, but tore up the village to find Poirot.
