## CHAPTER X.<br/>THE ARREST

To my extreme annoyance, Poirot was not in, and the old Belgian who answered my
knock informed me that he believed he had gone to London.

I was dumbfounded. What on earth could Poirot be doing in London! Was it a
sudden decision on his part, or had he already made up his mind when he parted
from me a few hours earlier?

I retraced my steps to Styles in some annoyance. With Poirot away, I was
uncertain how to act. Had he foreseen this arrest? Had he not, in all
probability, been the cause of it? Those questions I could not resolve. But in
the meantime what was I to do? Should I announce the arrest openly at Styles,
or not? Though I did not acknowledge it to myself, the thought of Mary
Cavendish was weighing on me. Would it not be a terrible shock to her? For the
moment, I set aside utterly any suspicions of her. She could not be
implicated&mdash;otherwise I should have heard some hint of it.

Of course, there was no possibility of being able permanently to conceal Dr.
Bauerstein&rsquo;s arrest from her. It would be announced in every newspaper on
the morrow. Still, I shrank from blurting it out. If only Poirot had been
accessible, I could have asked his advice. What possessed him to go posting off
to London in this unaccountable way?

In spite of myself, my opinion of his sagacity was immeasurably heightened. I
would never have dreamt of suspecting the doctor, had not Poirot put it into my
head. Yes, decidedly, the little man was clever.

After some reflecting, I decided to take John into my confidence, and leave him
to make the matter public or not, as he thought fit.

He gave vent to a prodigious whistle, as I imparted the news.

&ldquo;Great Scott! You *were* right, then. I couldn&rsquo;t believe it at
the time.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, it is astonishing until you get used to the idea, and see how it
makes everything fit in. Now, what are we to do? Of course, it will be
generally known to-morrow.&rdquo;

John reflected.

&ldquo;Never mind,&rdquo; he said at last, &ldquo;we won&rsquo;t say anything
at present. There is no need. As you say, it will be known soon enough.&rdquo;

But to my intense surprise, on getting down early the next morning, and eagerly
opening the newspapers, there was not a word about the arrest! There was a
column of mere padding about &ldquo;The Styles Poisoning Case,&rdquo; but
nothing further. It was rather inexplicable, but I supposed that, for some
reason or other, Japp wished to keep it out of the papers. It worried me just a
little, for it suggested the possibility that there might be further arrests to
come.

After breakfast, I decided to go down to the village, and see if Poirot had
returned yet; but, before I could start, a well-known face blocked one of the
windows, and the well-known voice said:

&ldquo;*Bonjour, mon ami!*&rdquo;

&ldquo;Poirot,&rdquo; I exclaimed, with relief, and seizing him by both hands,
I dragged him into the room. &ldquo;I was never so glad to see anyone. Listen,
I have said nothing to anybody but John. Is that right?&rdquo;

&ldquo;My friend,&rdquo; replied Poirot, &ldquo;I do not know what you are
talking about.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Dr. Bauerstein&rsquo;s arrest, of course,&rdquo; I answered impatiently.

&ldquo;Is Bauerstein arrested, then?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Did you not know it?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not the least in the world.&rdquo; But, pausing a moment, he added:
&ldquo;Still, it does not surprise me. After all, we are only four miles from
the coast.&rdquo;

&ldquo;The coast?&rdquo; I asked, puzzled. &ldquo;What has that got to do with
it?&rdquo;

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

&ldquo;Surely, it is obvious!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not to me. No doubt I am very dense, but I cannot see what the proximity
of the coast has got to do with the murder of Mrs. Inglethorp.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Nothing at all, of course,&rdquo; replied Poirot, smiling. &ldquo;But we
were speaking of the arrest of Dr. Bauerstein.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, he is arrested for the murder of Mrs.
Inglethorp&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

&ldquo;What?&rdquo; cried Poirot, in apparently lively astonishment. &ldquo;Dr.
Bauerstein arrested for the murder of Mrs. Inglethorp?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Impossible! That would be too good a farce! Who told you that, my
friend?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, no one exactly told me,&rdquo; I confessed. &ldquo;But he is
arrested.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, yes, very likely. But for espionage, *mon ami*.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Espionage?&rdquo; I gasped.

&ldquo;Precisely.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not for poisoning Mrs. Inglethorp?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not unless our friend Japp has taken leave of his senses,&rdquo; replied
Poirot placidly.

&ldquo;But&mdash;but I thought you thought so too?&rdquo;

Poirot gave me one look, which conveyed a wondering pity, and his full sense of
the utter absurdity of such an idea.

&ldquo;Do you mean to say,&rdquo; I asked, slowly adapting myself to the new
idea, &ldquo;that Dr. Bauerstein is a spy?&rdquo;

Poirot nodded.

&ldquo;Have you never suspected it?&rdquo;

&ldquo;It never entered my head.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It did not strike you as peculiar that a famous London doctor should
bury himself in a little village like this, and should be in the habit of
walking about at all hours of the night, fully dressed?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No,&rdquo; I confessed, &ldquo;I never thought of such a thing.&rdquo;

&ldquo;He is, of course, a German by birth,&rdquo; said Poirot thoughtfully,
&ldquo;though he has practised so long in this country that nobody thinks of
him as anything but an Englishman. He was naturalized about fifteen years ago.
A very clever man&mdash;a Jew, of course.&rdquo;

&ldquo;The blackguard!&rdquo; I cried indignantly.

&ldquo;Not at all. He is, on the contrary, a patriot. Think what he stands to
lose. I admire the man myself.&rdquo;

But I could not look at it in Poirot&rsquo;s philosophical way.

&ldquo;And this is the man with whom Mrs. Cavendish has been wandering about
all over the country!&rdquo; I cried indignantly.

&ldquo;Yes. I should fancy he had found her very useful,&rdquo; remarked
Poirot. &ldquo;So long as gossip busied itself in coupling their names
together, any other vagaries of the doctor&rsquo;s passed unobserved.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then you think he never really cared for her?&rdquo; I asked
eagerly&mdash;rather too eagerly, perhaps, under the circumstances.

&ldquo;That, of course, I cannot say, but&mdash;shall I tell you my own private
opinion, Hastings?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, it is this: that Mrs. Cavendish does not care, and never has cared
one little jot about Dr. Bauerstein!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Do you really think so?&rdquo; I could not disguise my pleasure.

&ldquo;I am quite sure of it. And I will tell you why.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Because she cares for someone else, *mon ami*.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh!&rdquo; What did he mean? In spite of myself, an agreeable warmth
spread over me. I am not a vain man where women are concerned, but I remembered
certain evidences, too lightly thought of at the time, perhaps, but which
certainly seemed to indicate&mdash;&mdash;

My pleasing thoughts were interrupted by the sudden entrance of Miss Howard.
She glanced round hastily to make sure there was no one else in the room, and
quickly produced an old sheet of brown paper. This she handed to Poirot,
murmuring as she did so the cryptic words:

&ldquo;On top of the wardrobe.&rdquo; Then she hurriedly left the room.

Poirot unfolded the sheet of paper eagerly, and uttered an exclamation of
satisfaction. He spread it out on the table.

&ldquo;Come here, Hastings. Now tell me, what is that initial&mdash;J. or
L.?&rdquo;

It was a medium sized sheet of paper, rather dusty, as though it had lain by
for some time. But it was the label that was attracting Poirot&rsquo;s
attention. At the top, it bore the printed stamp of Messrs. Parkson&rsquo;s,
the well-known theatrical costumiers, and it was addressed to
&ldquo;&mdash;(the debatable initial) Cavendish, Esq., Styles Court, Styles St.
Mary, Essex.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It might be T., or it might be L.,&rdquo; I said, after studying the
thing for a minute or two. &ldquo;It certainly isn&rsquo;t a J.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Good,&rdquo; replied Poirot, folding up the paper again. &ldquo;I, also,
am of your way of thinking. It is an L., depend upon it!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Where did it come from?&rdquo; I asked curiously. &ldquo;Is it
important?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Moderately so. It confirms a surmise of mine. Having deduced its
existence, I set Miss Howard to search for it, and, as you see, she has been
successful.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What did she mean by &lsquo;On the top of the wardrobe&rsquo;?&rdquo;

&ldquo;She meant,&rdquo; replied Poirot promptly, &ldquo;that she found it on
top of a wardrobe.&rdquo;

&ldquo;A funny place for a piece of brown paper,&rdquo; I mused.

&ldquo;Not at all. The top of a wardrobe is an excellent place for brown paper
and cardboard boxes. I have kept them there myself. Neatly arranged, there is
nothing to offend the eye.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Poirot,&rdquo; I asked earnestly, &ldquo;have you made up your mind
about this crime?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes&mdash;that is to say, I believe I know how it was committed.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ah!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Unfortunately, I have no proof beyond my surmise,
unless&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo; With sudden energy, he caught me by the arm, and
whirled me down the hall, calling out in French in his excitement:
&ldquo;Mademoiselle Dorcas, Mademoiselle Dorcas, *un moment, s&rsquo;il vous
pla√Æt!*&rdquo;

Dorcas, quite flurried by the noise, came hurrying out of the pantry.

&ldquo;My good Dorcas, I have an idea&mdash;a little idea&mdash;if it should
prove justified, what magnificent chance! Tell me, on Monday, not Tuesday,
Dorcas, but Monday, the day before the tragedy, did anything go wrong with Mrs.
Inglethorp&rsquo;s bell?&rdquo;

Dorcas looked very surprised.

&ldquo;Yes, sir, now you mention it, it did; though I don&rsquo;t know how you
came to hear of it. A mouse, or some such, must have nibbled the wire through.
The man came and put it right on Tuesday morning.&rdquo;

With a long drawn exclamation of ecstasy, Poirot led the way back to the
morning-room.

&ldquo;See you, one should not ask for outside proof&mdash;no, reason should be
enough. But the flesh is weak, it is consolation to find that one is on the
right track. Ah, my friend, I am like a giant refreshed. I run! I leap!&rdquo;

And, in very truth, run and leap he did, gambolling wildly down the stretch of
lawn outside the long window.

&ldquo;What is your remarkable little friend doing?&rdquo; asked a voice behind
me, and I turned to find Mary Cavendish at my elbow. She smiled, and so did I.
&ldquo;What is it all about?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Really, I can&rsquo;t tell you. He asked Dorcas some question about a
bell, and appeared so delighted with her answer that he is capering about as
you see!&rdquo;

Mary laughed.

&ldquo;How ridiculous! He&rsquo;s going out of the gate. Isn&rsquo;t he coming
back to-day?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know. I&rsquo;ve given up trying to guess what he&rsquo;ll
do next.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Is he quite mad, Mr. Hastings?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I honestly don&rsquo;t know. Sometimes, I feel sure he is as mad as a
hatter; and then, just as he is at his maddest, I find there is method in his
madness.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I see.&rdquo;

In spite of her laugh, Mary was looking thoughtful this morning. She seemed
grave, almost sad.

It occurred to me that it would be a good opportunity to tackle her on the
subject of Cynthia. I began rather tactfully, *I* thought, but I had not
gone far before she stopped me authoritatively.

&ldquo;You are an excellent advocate, I have no doubt, Mr. Hastings, but in
this case your talents are quite thrown away. Cynthia will run no risk of
encountering any unkindness from me.&rdquo;

I began to stammer feebly that I hoped she hadn&rsquo;t thought&mdash;&mdash;
But again she stopped me, and her words were so unexpected that they quite
drove Cynthia, and her troubles, out of my mind.

&ldquo;Mr. Hastings,&rdquo; she said, &ldquo;do you think I and my husband are
happy together?&rdquo;

I was considerably taken aback, and murmured something about it&rsquo;s not
being my business to think anything of the sort.

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; she said quietly, &ldquo;whether it is your business or
not, I will tell you that we are *not* happy.&rdquo;

I said nothing, for I saw that she had not finished.

She began slowly, walking up and down the room, her head a little bent, and
that slim, supple figure of hers swaying gently as she walked. She stopped
suddenly, and looked up at me.

&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t know anything about me, do you?&rdquo; she asked.
&ldquo;Where I come from, who I was before I married John&mdash;anything, in
fact? Well, I will tell you. I will make a father confessor of you. You are
kind, I think&mdash;yes, I am sure you are kind.&rdquo;

Somehow, I was not quite as elated as I might have been. I remembered that
Cynthia had begun her confidences in much the same way. Besides, a father
confessor should be elderly, it is not at all the role for a young man.

&ldquo;My father was English,&rdquo; said Mrs. Cavendish, &ldquo;but my mother
was a Russian.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Ah,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;now I understand&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

&ldquo;Understand what?&rdquo;

&ldquo;A hint of something foreign&mdash;different&mdash;that there has always
been about you.&rdquo;

&ldquo;My mother was very beautiful, I believe. I don&rsquo;t know, because I
never saw her. She died when I was quite a little child. I believe there was
some tragedy connected with her death&mdash;she took an overdose of some
sleeping draught by mistake. However that may be, my father was broken-hearted.
Shortly afterwards, he went into the Consular Service. Everywhere he went, I
went with him. When I was twenty-three, I had been nearly all over the world.
It was a splendid life&mdash;I loved it.&rdquo;

There was a smile on her face, and her head was thrown back. She seemed living
in the memory of those old glad days.

&ldquo;Then my father died. He left me very badly off. I had to go and live
with some old aunts in Yorkshire.&rdquo; She shuddered. &ldquo;You will
understand me when I say that it was a deadly life for a girl brought up as I
had been. The narrowness, the deadly monotony of it, almost drove me
mad.&rdquo; She paused a minute, and added in a different tone: &ldquo;And then
I met John Cavendish.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;

&ldquo;You can imagine that, from my aunts&rsquo; point of view, it was a very
good match for me. But I can honestly say it was not this fact which weighed
with me. No, he was simply a way of escape from the insufferable monotony of my
life.&rdquo;

I said nothing, and after a moment, she went on:

&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t misunderstand me. I was quite honest with him. I told him,
what was true, that I liked him very much, that I hoped to come to like him
more, but that I was not in any way what the world calls &lsquo;in love&rsquo;
with him. He declared that that satisfied him, and so&mdash;we were
married.&rdquo;

She waited a long time, a little frown had gathered on her forehead. She seemed
to be looking back earnestly into those past days.

&ldquo;I think&mdash;I am sure&mdash;he cared for me at first. But I suppose we
were not well matched. Almost at once, we drifted apart. He&mdash;it is not a
pleasing thing for my pride, but it is the truth&mdash;tired of me very
soon.&rdquo; I must have made some murmur of dissent, for she went on quickly:
&ldquo;Oh, yes, he did! Not that it matters now&mdash;now that we&rsquo;ve come
to the parting of the ways.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What do you mean?&rdquo;

She answered quietly:

&ldquo;I mean that I am not going to remain at Styles.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You and John are not going to live here?&rdquo;

&ldquo;John may live here, but I shall not.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You are going to leave him?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But why?&rdquo;

She paused a long time, and said at last:

&ldquo;Perhaps&mdash;because I want to be&mdash;free!&rdquo;

And, as she spoke, I had a sudden vision of broad spaces, virgin tracts of
forests, untrodden lands&mdash;and a realization of what freedom would mean to
such a nature as Mary Cavendish. I seemed to see her for a moment as she was, a
proud wild creature, as untamed by civilization as some shy bird of the hills.
A little cry broke from her lips:

&ldquo;You don&rsquo;t know, you don&rsquo;t know, how this hateful place has
been prison to me!&rdquo;

&ldquo;I understand,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;but&mdash;but don&rsquo;t do
anything rash.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, rash!&rdquo; Her voice mocked at my prudence.

Then suddenly I said a thing I could have bitten out my tongue for:

&ldquo;You know that Dr. Bauerstein has been arrested?&rdquo;

An instant coldness passed like a mask over her face, blotting out all
expression.

&ldquo;John was so kind as to break that to me this morning.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, what do you think?&rdquo; I asked feebly.

&ldquo;Of what?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Of the arrest?&rdquo;

&ldquo;What should I think? Apparently he is a German spy; so the gardener had
told John.&rdquo;

Her face and voice were absolutely cold and expressionless. Did she care, or
did she not?

She moved away a step or two, and fingered one of the flower vases.

&ldquo;These are quite dead. I must do them again. Would you mind
moving&mdash;thank you, Mr. Hastings.&rdquo; And she walked quietly past me out
of the window, with a cool little nod of dismissal.

No, surely she could not care for Bauerstein. No woman could act her part with
that icy unconcern.

Poirot did not make his appearance the following morning, and there was no sign
of the Scotland Yard men.

But, at lunch-time, there arrived a new piece of evidence&mdash;or rather lack
of evidence. We had vainly tried to trace the fourth letter, which Mrs.
Inglethorp had written on the evening preceding her death. Our efforts having
been in vain, we had abandoned the matter, hoping that it might turn up of
itself one day. And this is just what did happen, in the shape of a
communication, which arrived by the second post from a firm of French music
publishers, acknowledging Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s cheque, and regretting they
had been unable to trace a certain series of Russian folksongs. So the last
hope of solving the mystery, by means of Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s correspondence
on the fatal evening, had to be abandoned.

Just before tea, I strolled down to tell Poirot of the new disappointment, but
found, to my annoyance, that he was once more out.

&ldquo;Gone to London again?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, no, monsieur, he has but taken the train to Tadminster. &lsquo;To
see a young lady&rsquo;s dispensary,&rsquo; he said.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Silly ass!&rdquo; I ejaculated. &ldquo;I told him Wednesday was the one
day she wasn&rsquo;t there! Well, tell him to look us up to-morrow morning,
will you?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Certainly, monsieur.&rdquo;

But, on the following day, no sign of Poirot. I was getting angry. He was
really treating us in the most cavalier fashion.

After lunch, Lawrence drew me aside, and asked if I was going down to see him.

&ldquo;No, I don&rsquo;t think I shall. He can come up here if he wants to see
us.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh!&rdquo; Lawrence looked indeterminate. Something unusually nervous
and excited in his manner roused my curiosity.

&ldquo;What is it?&rdquo; I asked. &ldquo;I could go if there&rsquo;s anything
special.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s nothing much, but&mdash;well, if you are going, will you tell
him&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo; he dropped his voice to a whisper&mdash;&ldquo;I think
I&rsquo;ve found the extra coffee-cup!&rdquo;

I had almost forgotten that enigmatical message of Poirot&rsquo;s, but now my
curiosity was aroused afresh.

Lawrence would say no more, so I decided that I would descend from my high
horse, and once more seek out Poirot at Leastways Cottage.

This time I was received with a smile. Monsieur Poirot was within. Would I
mount? I mounted accordingly.

Poirot was sitting by the table, his head buried in his hands. He sprang up at
my entrance.

&ldquo;What is it?&rdquo; I asked solicitously. &ldquo;You are not ill, I
trust?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, no, not ill. But I decide an affair of great moment.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Whether to catch the criminal or not?&rdquo; I asked facetiously.

But, to my great surprise, Poirot nodded gravely.

&ldquo;&lsquo;To speak or not to speak,&rsquo; as your so great Shakespeare
says, &lsquo;that is the question.&rsquo;&rdquo;

I did not trouble to correct the quotation.

&ldquo;You are not serious, Poirot?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I am of the most serious. For the most serious of all things hangs in
the balance.&rdquo;

&ldquo;And that is?&rdquo;

&ldquo;A woman&rsquo;s happiness, *mon ami*,&rdquo; he said gravely.

I did not quite know what to say.

&ldquo;The moment has come,&rdquo; said Poirot thoughtfully, &ldquo;and I do
not know what to do. For, see you, it is a big stake for which I play. No one
but I, Hercule Poirot, would attempt it!&rdquo; And he tapped himself proudly
on the breast.

After pausing a few minutes respectfully, so as not to spoil his effect, I gave
him Lawrence&rsquo;s message.

&ldquo;Aha!&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;So he has found the extra coffee-cup. That
is good. He has more intelligence than would appear, this long-faced Monsieur
Lawrence of yours!&rdquo;

I did not myself think very highly of Lawrence&rsquo;s intelligence; but I
forebore to contradict Poirot, and gently took him to task for forgetting my
instructions as to which were Cynthia&rsquo;s days off.

&ldquo;It is true. I have the head of a sieve. However, the other young lady
was most kind. She was sorry for my disappointment, and showed me everything in
the kindest way.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, well, that&rsquo;s all right, then, and you must go to tea with
Cynthia another day.&rdquo;

I told him about the letter.

&ldquo;I am sorry for that,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I always had hopes of that
letter. But no, it was not to be. This affair must all be unravelled from
within.&rdquo; He tapped his forehead. &ldquo;These little grey cells. It is
&lsquo;up to them&rsquo;&mdash;as you say over here.&rdquo; Then, suddenly, he
asked: &ldquo;Are you a judge of finger-marks, my friend?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No,&rdquo; I said, rather surprised, &ldquo;I know that there are no two
finger-marks alike, but that&rsquo;s as far as my science goes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Exactly.&rdquo;

He unlocked a little drawer, and took out some photographs which he laid on the
table.

&ldquo;I have numbered them, 1, 2, 3. Will you describe them to me?&rdquo;

I studied the proofs attentively.

&ldquo;All greatly magnified, I see. No. 1, I should say, are a man&rsquo;s
finger-prints; thumb and first finger. No. 2 are a lady&rsquo;s; they are much
smaller, and quite different in every way. No. 3&rdquo;&mdash;I paused for some
time&mdash;&ldquo;there seem to be a lot of confused finger-marks, but here,
very distinctly, are No. 1&rsquo;s.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Overlapping the others?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You recognize them beyond fail?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, yes; they are identical.&rdquo;

Poirot nodded, and gently taking the photographs from me locked them up again.

&ldquo;I suppose,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;that as usual, you are not going to
explain?&rdquo;

&ldquo;On the contrary. No. 1 were the finger-prints of Monsieur Lawrence. No.
2 were those of Mademoiselle Cynthia. They are not important. I merely obtained
them for comparison. No. 3 is a little more complicated.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes?&rdquo;

&ldquo;It is, as you see, highly magnified. You may have noticed a sort of blur
extending all across the picture. I will not describe to you the special
apparatus, dusting powder, etc., which I used. It is a well-known process to
the police, and by means of it you can obtain a photograph of the finger-prints
of any object in a very short space of time. Well, my friend, you have seen the
finger-marks&mdash;it remains to tell you the particular object on which they
had been left.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Go on&mdash;I am really excited.&rdquo;

&ldquo;*Eh bien!* Photo No. 3 represents the highly magnified surface of a
tiny bottle in the top poison cupboard of the dispensary in the Red Cross
Hospital at Tadminster&mdash;which sounds like the house that Jack
built!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Good heavens!&rdquo; I exclaimed. &ldquo;But what were Lawrence
Cavendish&rsquo;s finger-marks doing on it? He never went near the poison
cupboard the day we were there!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, yes, he did!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Impossible! We were all together the whole time.&rdquo;

Poirot shook his head.

&ldquo;No, my friend, there was a moment when you were not all together. There
was a moment when you could not have been all together, or it would not have
been necessary to call to Monsieur Lawrence to come and join you on the
balcony.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I&rsquo;d forgotten that,&rdquo; I admitted. &ldquo;But it was only for
a moment.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Long enough.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Long enough for what?&rdquo;

Poirot&rsquo;s smile became rather enigmatical.

&ldquo;Long enough for a gentleman who had once studied medicine to gratify a
very natural interest and curiosity.&rdquo;

Our eyes met. Poirot&rsquo;s were pleasantly vague. He got up and hummed a
little tune. I watched him suspiciously.

&ldquo;Poirot,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;what was in this particular little
bottle?&rdquo;

Poirot looked out of the window.

&ldquo;Hydro-chloride of strychnine,&rdquo; he said, over his shoulder,
continuing to hum.

&ldquo;Good heavens!&rdquo; I said it quite quietly. I was not surprised. I had
expected that answer.

&ldquo;They use the pure hydro-chloride of strychnine very little&mdash;only
occasionally for pills. It is the official solution, Liq. Strychnine
Hydro-clor. that is used in most medicines. That is why the finger-marks have
remained undisturbed since then.&rdquo;

&ldquo;How did you manage to take this photograph?&rdquo;

&ldquo;I dropped my hat from the balcony,&rdquo; explained Poirot simply.
&ldquo;Visitors were not permitted below at that hour, so, in spite of my many
apologies, Mademoiselle Cynthia&rsquo;s colleague had to go down and fetch it
for me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then you knew what you were going to find?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, not at all. I merely realized that it was possible, from your story,
for Monsieur Lawrence to go to the poison cupboard. The possibility had to be
confirmed, or eliminated.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Poirot,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;your gaiety does not deceive me. This is a
very important discovery.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I do not know,&rdquo; said Poirot. &ldquo;But one thing does strike me.
No doubt it has struck you too.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What is that?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Why, that there is altogether too much strychnine about this case. This
is the third time we run up against it. There was strychnine in Mrs.
Inglethorp&rsquo;s tonic. There is the strychnine sold across the counter at
Styles St. Mary by Mace. Now we have more strychnine, handled by one of the
household. It is confusing; and, as you know, I do not like confusion.&rdquo;

Before I could reply, one of the other Belgians opened the door and stuck his
head in.

&ldquo;There is a lady below, asking for Mr Hastings.&rdquo;

&ldquo;A lady?&rdquo;

I jumped up. Poirot followed me down the narrow stairs. Mary Cavendish was
standing in the doorway.

&ldquo;I have been visiting an old woman in the village,&rdquo; she explained,
&ldquo;and as Lawrence told me you were with Monsieur Poirot I thought I would
call for you.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Alas, madame,&rdquo; said Poirot, &ldquo;I thought you had come to
honour me with a visit!&rdquo;

&ldquo;I will some day, if you ask me,&rdquo; she promised him, smiling.

&ldquo;That is well. If you should need a father confessor,
madame&rdquo;&mdash;she started ever so slightly&mdash;&ldquo;remember, Papa
Poirot is always at your service.&rdquo;

She stared at him for a few minutes, as though seeking to read some deeper
meaning into his words. Then she turned abruptly away.

&ldquo;Come, will you not walk back with us too, Monsieur Poirot?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Enchanted, madame.&rdquo;

All the way to Styles, Mary talked fast and feverishly. It struck me that in
some way she was nervous of Poirot&rsquo;s eyes.

The weather had broken, and the sharp wind was almost autumnal in its
shrewishness. Mary shivered a little, and buttoned her black sports coat
closer. The wind through the trees made a mournful noise, like some great giant
sighing.

We walked up to the great door of Styles, and at once the knowledge came to us
that something was wrong.

Dorcas came running out to meet us. She was crying and wringing her hands. I
was aware of other servants huddled together in the background, all eyes and
ears.

&ldquo;Oh, m&rsquo;am! Oh, m&rsquo;am! I don&rsquo;t know how to tell
you&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

&ldquo;What is it, Dorcas?&rdquo; I asked impatiently. &ldquo;Tell us at
once.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s those wicked detectives. They&rsquo;ve arrested
him&mdash;they&rsquo;ve arrested Mr. Cavendish!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Arrested Lawrence?&rdquo; I gasped.

I saw a strange look come into Dorcas&rsquo;s eyes.

&ldquo;No, sir. Not Mr. Lawrence&mdash;Mr. John.&rdquo;

Behind me, with a wild cry, Mary Cavendish fell heavily against me, and as I
turned to catch her I met the quiet triumph in Poirot&rsquo;s eyes.
