## CHAPTER XII.<br/>THE LAST LINK

Poirot&rsquo;s abrupt departure had intrigued us all greatly. Sunday morning
wore away, and still he did not reappear. But about three o&rsquo;clock a
ferocious and prolonged hooting outside drove us to the window, to see Poirot
alighting from a car, accompanied by Japp and Summerhaye. The little man was
transformed. He radiated an absurd complacency. He bowed with exaggerated
respect to Mary Cavendish.

&ldquo;Madame, I have your permission to hold a little *r√©union* in the
*salon*? It is necessary for everyone to attend.&rdquo;

Mary smiled sadly.

&ldquo;You know, Monsieur Poirot, that you have *carte blanche* in every
way.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You are too amiable, madame.&rdquo;

Still beaming, Poirot marshalled us all into the drawing-room, bringing forward
chairs as he did so.

&ldquo;Miss Howard&mdash;here. Mademoiselle Cynthia. Monsieur Lawrence. The
good Dorcas. And Annie. *Bien!* We must delay our proceedings a few
minutes until Mr. Inglethorp arrives. I have sent him a note.&rdquo;

Miss Howard rose immediately from her seat.

&ldquo;If that man comes into the house, I leave it!&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, no!&rdquo; Poirot went up to her and pleaded in a low voice.

Finally Miss Howard consented to return to her chair. A few minutes later
Alfred Inglethorp entered the room.

The company once assembled, Poirot rose from his seat with the air of a popular
lecturer, and bowed politely to his audience.

&ldquo;*Messieurs, mesdames*, as you all know, I was called in by Monsieur
John Cavendish to investigate this case. I at once examined the bedroom of the
deceased which, by the advice of the doctors, had been kept locked, and was
consequently exactly as it had been when the tragedy occurred. I found: first,
a fragment of green material; second, a stain on the carpet near the window,
still damp; thirdly, an empty box of bromide powders.

&ldquo;To take the fragment of green material first, I found it caught in the
bolt of the communicating door between that room and the adjoining one occupied
by Mademoiselle Cynthia. I handed the fragment over to the police who did not
consider it of much importance. Nor did they recognize it for what it
was&mdash;a piece torn from a green land armlet.&rdquo;

There was a little stir of excitement.

&ldquo;Now there was only one person at Styles who worked on the
land&mdash;Mrs. Cavendish. Therefore it must have been Mrs. Cavendish who
entered the deceased&rsquo;s room through the door communicating with
Mademoiselle Cynthia&rsquo;s room.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But that door was bolted on the inside!&rdquo; I cried.

&ldquo;When I examined the room, yes. But in the first place we have only her
word for it, since it was she who tried that particular door and reported it
fastened. In the ensuing confusion she would have had ample opportunity to
shoot the bolt across. I took an early opportunity of verifying my conjectures.
To begin with, the fragment corresponds exactly with a tear in Mrs.
Cavendish&rsquo;s armlet. Also, at the inquest, Mrs. Cavendish declared that
she had heard, from her own room, the fall of the table by the bed. I took an
early opportunity of testing that statement by stationing my friend Monsieur
Hastings in the left wing of the building, just outside Mrs. Cavendish&rsquo;s
door. I myself, in company with the police, went to the deceased&rsquo;s room,
and whilst there I, apparently accidentally, knocked over the table in
question, but found that, as I had expected, Monsieur Hastings had heard no
sound at all. This confirmed my belief that Mrs. Cavendish was not speaking the
truth when she declared that she had been dressing in her room at the time of
the tragedy. In fact, I was convinced that, far from having been in her own
room, Mrs. Cavendish was actually in the deceased&rsquo;s room when the alarm
was given.&rdquo;

I shot a quick glance at Mary. She was very pale, but smiling.

&ldquo;I proceeded to reason on that assumption. Mrs. Cavendish is in her
mother-in-law&rsquo;s room. We will say that she is seeking for something and
has not yet found it. Suddenly Mrs. Inglethorp awakens and is seized with an
alarming paroxysm. She flings out her arm, overturning the bed table, and then
pulls desperately at the bell. Mrs. Cavendish, startled, drops her candle,
scattering the grease on the carpet. She picks it up, and retreats quickly to
Mademoiselle Cynthia&rsquo;s room, closing the door behind her. She hurries out
into the passage, for the servants must not find her where she is. But it is
too late! Already footsteps are echoing along the gallery which connects the
two wings. What can she do? Quick as thought, she hurries back to the young
girl&rsquo;s room, and starts shaking her awake. The hastily aroused household
come trooping down the passage. They are all busily battering at Mrs.
Inglethorp&rsquo;s door. It occurs to nobody that Mrs. Cavendish has not
arrived with the rest, but&mdash;and this is significant&mdash;I can find no
one who saw her come from the other wing.&rdquo; He looked at Mary Cavendish.
&ldquo;Am I right, madame?&rdquo;

She bowed her head.

&ldquo;Quite right, monsieur. You understand that, if I had thought I would do
my husband any good by revealing these facts, I would have done so. But it did
not seem to me to bear upon the question of his guilt or innocence.&rdquo;

&ldquo;In a sense, that is correct, madame. But it cleared my mind of many
misconceptions, and left me free to see other facts in their true
significance.&rdquo;

&ldquo;The will!&rdquo; cried Lawrence. &ldquo;Then it was you, Mary, who
destroyed the will?&rdquo;

She shook her head, and Poirot shook his also.

&ldquo;No,&rdquo; he said quietly. &ldquo;There is only one person who could
possibly have destroyed that will&mdash;Mrs. Inglethorp herself!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Impossible!&rdquo; I exclaimed. &ldquo;She had only made it out that
very afternoon!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Nevertheless, *mon ami*, it was Mrs. Inglethorp. Because, in no
other way can you account for the fact that, on one of the hottest days of the
year, Mrs. Inglethorp ordered a fire to be lighted in her room.&rdquo;

I gave a gasp. What idiots we had been never to think of that fire as being
incongruous! Poirot was continuing:

&ldquo;The temperature on that day, messieurs, was 80 degrees in the shade. Yet
Mrs. Inglethorp ordered a fire! Why? Because she wished to destroy something,
and could think of no other way. You will remember that, in consequence of the
War economics practiced at Styles, no waste paper was thrown away. There was
therefore no means of destroying a thick document such as a will. The moment I
heard of a fire being lighted in Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s room, I leaped to the
conclusion that it was to destroy some important document&mdash;possibly a
will. So the discovery of the charred fragment in the grate was no surprise to
me. I did not, of course, know at the time that the will in question had only
been made this afternoon, and I will admit that, when I learnt that fact, I
fell into a grievous error. I came to the conclusion that Mrs.
Inglethorp&rsquo;s determination to destroy her will arose as a direct
consequence of the quarrel she had that afternoon, and that therefore the
quarrel took place after, and not before the making of the will.

&ldquo;Here, as we know, I was wrong, and I was forced to abandon that idea. I
faced the problem from a new standpoint. Now, at four o&rsquo;clock, Dorcas
overheard her mistress saying angrily: &lsquo;You need not think that any fear
of publicity, or scandal between husband and wife will deter me.&rdquo; I
conjectured, and conjectured rightly, that these words were addressed, not to
her husband, but to Mr. John Cavendish. At five o&rsquo;clock, an hour later, she
uses almost the same words, but the standpoint is different. She admits to
Dorcas, &lsquo;I don&rsquo;t know what to do; scandal between husband and wife
is a dreadful thing.&rsquo; At four o&rsquo;clock she has been angry, but
completely mistress of herself. At five o&rsquo;clock she is in violent distress,
and speaks of having had a great shock.

&ldquo;Looking at the matter psychologically, I drew one deduction which I was
convinced was correct. The second &lsquo;scandal&rsquo; she spoke of was not
the same as the first&mdash;and it concerned herself!

&ldquo;Let us reconstruct. At four o&rsquo;clock, Mrs. Inglethorp quarrels with
her son, and threatens to denounce him to his wife&mdash;who, by the way,
overheard the greater part of the conversation. At four-thirty, Mrs.
Inglethorp, in consequence of a conversation on the validity of wills, makes a
will in favour of her husband, which the two gardeners witness. At five
o&rsquo;clock, Dorcas finds her mistress in a state of considerable agitation,
with a slip of paper&mdash;&lsquo;a letter,&rsquo; Dorcas thinks&mdash;in her
hand, and it is then that she orders the fire in her room to be lighted.
Presumably, then, between four-thirty and five o&rsquo;clock, something has
occurred to occasion a complete revolution of feeling, since she is now as
anxious to destroy the will, as she was before to make it. What was that
something?

&ldquo;As far as we know, she was quite alone during that half-hour. Nobody
entered or left that boudoir. What then occasioned this sudden change of
sentiment?

&ldquo;One can only guess, but I believe my guess to be correct. Mrs.
Inglethorp had no stamps in her desk. We know this, because later she asked
Dorcas to bring her some. Now in the opposite corner of the room stood her
husband&rsquo;s desk&mdash;locked. She was anxious to find some stamps, and,
according to my theory, she tried her own keys in the desk. That one of them
fitted I know. She therefore opened the desk, and in searching for the stamps
she came across something else&mdash;that slip of paper which Dorcas saw in her
hand, and which assuredly was never meant for Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s eyes. On
the other hand, Mrs. Cavendish believed that the slip of paper to which her
mother-in-law clung so tenaciously was a written proof of her own
husband&rsquo;s infidelity. She demanded it from Mrs. Inglethorp who assured
her, quite truly, that it had nothing to do with that matter. Mrs. Cavendish
did not believe her. She thought that Mrs. Inglethorp was shielding her
stepson. Now Mrs. Cavendish is a very resolute woman, and, behind her mask of
reserve, she was madly jealous of her husband. She determined to get hold of
that paper at all costs, and in this resolution chance came to her aid. She
happened to pick up the key of Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s despatch-case, which had
been lost that morning. She knew that her mother-in-law invariably kept all
important papers in this particular case.

&ldquo;Mrs. Cavendish, therefore, made her plans as only a woman driven
desperate through jealousy could have done. Some time in the evening she
unbolted the door leading into Mademoiselle Cynthia&rsquo;s room. Possibly she
applied oil to the hinges, for I found that it opened quite noiselessly when I
tried it. She put off her project until the early hours of the morning as being
safer, since the servants were accustomed to hearing her move about her room at
that time. She dressed completely in her land kit, and made her way quietly
through Mademoiselle Cynthia&rsquo;s room into that of Mrs. Inglethorp.&rdquo;

He paused a moment, and Cynthia interrupted:

&ldquo;But I should have woken up if anyone had come through my room?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not if you were drugged, mademoiselle.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Drugged?&rdquo;

&ldquo;*Mais, oui!*&rdquo;

&ldquo;You remember&rdquo;&mdash;he addressed us collectively
again&mdash;&ldquo;that through all the tumult and noise next door Mademoiselle
Cynthia slept. That admitted of two possibilities. Either her sleep was
feigned&mdash;which I did not believe&mdash;or her unconsciousness was induced
by artificial means.

&ldquo;With this latter idea in my mind, I examined all the coffee-cups most
carefully, remembering that it was Mrs. Cavendish who had brought Mademoiselle
Cynthia her coffee the night before. I took a sample from each cup, and had
them analysed&mdash;with no result. I had counted the cups carefully, in the
event of one having been removed. Six persons had taken coffee, and six cups
were duly found. I had to confess myself mistaken.

&ldquo;Then I discovered that I had been guilty of a very grave oversight.
Coffee had been brought in for seven persons, not six, for Dr. Bauerstein had
been there that evening. This changed the face of the whole affair, for there
was now one cup missing. The servants noticed nothing, since Annie, the
housemaid, who took in the coffee, brought in seven cups, not knowing that Mr.
Inglethorp never drank it, whereas Dorcas, who cleared them away the following
morning, found six as usual&mdash;or strictly speaking she found five, the
sixth being the one found broken in Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s room.

&ldquo;I was confident that the missing cup was that of Mademoiselle Cynthia. I
had an additional reason for that belief in the fact that all the cups found
contained sugar, which Mademoiselle Cynthia never took in her coffee. My
attention was attracted by the story of Annie about some &lsquo;salt&rsquo; on
the tray of cocoa which she took every night to Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s room. I
accordingly secured a sample of that cocoa, and sent it to be analysed.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But that had already been done by Dr. Bauerstein,&rdquo; said Lawrence
quickly.

&ldquo;Not exactly. The analyst was asked by him to report whether strychnine
was, or was not, present. He did not have it tested, as I did, for a
narcotic.&rdquo;

&ldquo;For a narcotic?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes. Here is the analyst&rsquo;s report. Mrs. Cavendish administered a
safe, but effectual, narcotic to both Mrs. Inglethorp and Mademoiselle Cynthia.
And it is possible that she had a *mauvais quart d&rsquo;heure* in
consequence! Imagine her feelings when her mother-in-law is suddenly taken ill
and dies, and immediately after she hears the word &lsquo;Poison&rsquo;! She
has believed that the sleeping draught she administered was perfectly harmless,
but there is no doubt that for one terrible moment she must have feared that
Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s death lay at her door. She is seized with panic, and
under its influence she hurries downstairs, and quickly drops the coffee-cup
and saucer used by Mademoiselle Cynthia into a large brass vase, where it is
discovered later by Monsieur Lawrence. The remains of the cocoa she dare not
touch. Too many eyes are upon her. Guess at her relief when strychnine is
mentioned, and she discovers that after all the tragedy is not her doing.

&ldquo;We are now able to account for the symptoms of strychnine poisoning
being so long in making their appearance. A narcotic taken with strychnine will
delay the action of the poison for some hours.&rdquo;

Poirot paused. Mary looked up at him, the colour slowly rising in her face.

&ldquo;All you have said is quite true, Monsieur Poirot. It was the most awful
hour of my life. I shall never forget it. But you are wonderful. I understand
now&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

&ldquo;What I meant when I told you that you could safely confess to Papa
Poirot, eh? But you would not trust me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I see everything now,&rdquo; said Lawrence. &ldquo;The drugged cocoa,
taken on top of the poisoned coffee, amply accounts for the delay.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Exactly. But was the coffee poisoned, or was it not? We come to a little
difficulty here, since Mrs. Inglethorp never drank it.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What?&rdquo; The cry of surprise was universal.

&ldquo;No. You will remember my speaking of a stain on the carpet in Mrs.
Inglethorp&rsquo;s room? There were some peculiar points about that stain. It
was still damp, it exhaled a strong odour of coffee, and imbedded in the nap of
the carpet I found some little splinters of china. What had happened was plain
to me, for not two minutes before I had placed my little case on the table near
the window, and the table, tilting up, had deposited it upon the floor on
precisely the identical spot. In exactly the same way, Mrs. Inglethorp had laid
down her cup of coffee on reaching her room the night before, and the
treacherous table had played her the same trick.

&ldquo;What happened next is mere guess work on my part, but I should say that
Mrs. Inglethorp picked up the broken cup and placed it on the table by the bed.
Feeling in need of a stimulant of some kind, she heated up her cocoa, and drank
it off then and there. Now we are faced with a new problem. We know the cocoa
contained no strychnine. The coffee was never drunk. Yet the strychnine must
have been administered between seven and nine o&rsquo;clock that evening. What
third medium was there&mdash;a medium so suitable for disguising the taste of
strychnine that it is extraordinary no one has thought of it?&rdquo; Poirot
looked round the room, and then answered himself impressively. &ldquo;Her
medicine!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Do you mean that the murderer introduced the strychnine into her
tonic?&rdquo; I cried.

&ldquo;There was no need to introduce it. It was already there&mdash;in the
mixture. The strychnine that killed Mrs. Inglethorp was the identical
strychnine prescribed by Dr. Wilkins. To make that clear to you, I will read
you an extract from a book on dispensing which I found in the Dispensary of the
Red Cross Hospital at Tadminster:

&ldquo;&lsquo;The following prescription has become famous in text books:

    <table border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0" summary="">
      <tr>
        <td align="left">
          Strychninae Sulph. . . . . .
        </td>
        <td align="left">
          1 gr.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td align="left">
          Potass Bromide . . . . . . .
        </td>
        <td align="left">
          <sup>3</sup>vi
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td align="left">
          Aqua ad. . . . . . . . . . . . .
        </td>
        <td align="left">
          <sup>3</sup>viii
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td align="left">
          Fiat Mistura
        </td>
      </tr>
    </table>


*This solution deposits in a few hours the greater part of the strychnine salt
as an insoluble bromide in transparent crystals. A lady in England lost her
life by taking a similar mixture: the precipitated strychnine collected at the
bottom, and in taking the last dose she swallowed nearly all of it!*

&ldquo;Now there was, of course, no bromide in Dr. Wilkins&rsquo; prescription,
but you will remember that I mentioned an empty box of bromide powders. One or
two of those powders introduced into the full bottle of medicine would
effectually precipitate the strychnine, as the book describes, and cause it to
be taken in the last dose. You will learn later that the person who usually
poured out Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s medicine was always extremely careful not to
shake the bottle, but to leave the sediment at the bottom of it undisturbed.

&ldquo;Throughout the case, there have been evidences that the tragedy was
intended to take place on Monday evening. On that day, Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s
bell wire was neatly cut, and on Monday evening Mademoiselle Cynthia was
spending the night with friends, so that Mrs. Inglethorp would have been quite
alone in the right wing, completely shut off from help of any kind, and would
have died, in all probability, before medical aid could have been summoned. But
in her hurry to be in time for the village entertainment Mrs. Inglethorp forgot
to take her medicine, and the next day she lunched away from home, so that the
last&mdash;and fatal&mdash;dose was actually taken twenty-four hours later than
had been anticipated by the murderer; and it is owing to that delay that the
final proof&mdash;the last link of the chain&mdash;is now in my hands.&rdquo;

Amid breathless excitement, he held out three thin strips of paper.

&ldquo;A letter in the murderer&rsquo;s own hand-writing, *mes amis!* Had it been
a little clearer in its terms, it is possible that Mrs. Inglethorp, warned in
time, would have escaped. As it was, she realized her danger, but not the
manner of it.&rdquo;

In the deathly silence, Poirot pieced together the slips of paper and, clearing
his throat, read:

<p class="letter">
Dearest Evelyn:<br/>
¬†¬†¬†¬†&lsquo;You will be anxious at hearing nothing. It is all right&mdash;only it
will be to-night instead of last night. You understand. There&rsquo;s a good
time coming once the old woman is dead and out of the way. No one can possibly
bring home the crime to me. That idea of yours about the bromides was a stroke
of genius! But we must be very circumspect. A false
step&mdash;&mdash;&rsquo;
</p>

&ldquo;Here, my friends, the letter breaks off. Doubtless the writer was
interrupted; but there can be no question as to his identity. We all know this
hand-writing and&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

A howl that was almost a scream broke the silence.

&ldquo;You devil! How did you get it?&rdquo;

A chair was overturned. Poirot skipped nimbly aside. A quick movement on his
part, and his assailant fell with a crash.

&ldquo;*Messieurs, mesdames*,&rdquo; said Poirot, with a flourish,
&ldquo;let me introduce you to the murderer, Mr. Alfred Inglethorp!&rdquo;
