<h2>CHAPTER I.<br/>
I GO TO STYLES</h2>

The intense interest aroused in the public by what was known at the time as
&ldquo;The Styles Case&rdquo; has now somewhat subsided. Nevertheless, in view
of the world-wide notoriety which attended it, I have been asked, both by my
friend Poirot and the family themselves, to write an account of the whole
story. This, we trust, will effectually silence the sensational rumours which
still persist.

I will therefore briefly set down the circumstances which led to my being
connected with the affair.

I had been invalided home from the Front; and, after spending some months in a
rather depressing Convalescent Home, was given a month&rsquo;s sick leave.
Having no near relations or friends, I was trying to make up my mind what to
do, when I ran across John Cavendish. I had seen very little of him for some
years. Indeed, I had never known him particularly well. He was a good fifteen
years my senior, for one thing, though he hardly looked his forty-five years.
As a boy, though, I had often stayed at Styles, his mother&rsquo;s place in
Essex.

We had a good yarn about old times, and it ended in his inviting me down to
Styles to spend my leave there.

&ldquo;The mater will be delighted to see you again&mdash;after all those
years,&rdquo; he added.

&ldquo;Your mother keeps well?&rdquo; I asked.

&ldquo;Oh, yes. I suppose you know that she has married again?&rdquo;

I am afraid I showed my surprise rather plainly. Mrs. Cavendish, who had
married John&rsquo;s father when he was a widower with two sons, had been a
handsome woman of middle-age as I remembered her. She certainly could not be a
day less than seventy now. I recalled her as an energetic, autocratic
personality, somewhat inclined to charitable and social notoriety, with a
fondness for opening bazaars and playing the Lady Bountiful. She was a most
generous woman, and possessed a considerable fortune of her own.

Their country-place, Styles Court, had been purchased by Mr. Cavendish early in
their married life. He had been completely under his wife&rsquo;s ascendancy,
so much so that, on dying, he left the place to her for her lifetime, as well
as the larger part of his income; an arrangement that was distinctly unfair to
his two sons. Their step-mother, however, had always been most generous to
them; indeed, they were so young at the time of their father&rsquo;s remarriage
that they always thought of her as their own mother.

Lawrence, the younger, had been a delicate youth. He had qualified as a doctor
but early relinquished the profession of medicine, and lived at home while
pursuing literary ambitions; though his verses never had any marked success.

John practised for some time as a barrister, but had finally settled down to
the more congenial life of a country squire. He had married two years ago, and
had taken his wife to live at Styles, though I entertained a shrewd suspicion
that he would have preferred his mother to increase his allowance, which would
have enabled him to have a home of his own. Mrs. Cavendish, however, was a lady
who liked to make her own plans, and expected other people to fall in with
them, and in this case she certainly had the whip hand, namely: the purse
strings.

John noticed my surprise at the news of his mother&rsquo;s remarriage and
smiled rather ruefully.

&ldquo;Rotten little bounder too!&rdquo; he said savagely. &ldquo;I can tell
you, Hastings, it&rsquo;s making life jolly difficult for us. As for
Evie&mdash;you remember Evie?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, I suppose she was after your time. She&rsquo;s the mater&rsquo;s
factotum, companion, Jack of all trades! A great sport&mdash;old Evie! Not
precisely young and beautiful, but as game as they make them.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You were going to say&mdash;&mdash;?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, this fellow! He turned up from nowhere, on the pretext of being a
second cousin or something of Evie&rsquo;s, though she didn&rsquo;t seem
particularly keen to acknowledge the relationship. The fellow is an absolute
outsider, anyone can see that. He&rsquo;s got a great black beard, and wears
patent leather boots in all weathers! But the mater cottoned to him at once,
took him on as secretary&mdash;you know how she&rsquo;s always running a
hundred societies?&rdquo;

I nodded.

&ldquo;Well, of course the war has turned the hundreds into thousands. No doubt
the fellow was very useful to her. But you could have knocked us all down with
a feather when, three months ago, she suddenly announced that she and Alfred
were engaged! The fellow must be at least twenty years younger than she is!
It&rsquo;s simply bare-faced fortune hunting; but there you are&mdash;she is
her own mistress, and she&rsquo;s married him.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It must be a difficult situation for you all.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Difficult! It&rsquo;s damnable!&rdquo;

Thus it came about that, three days later, I descended from the train at Styles
St. Mary, an absurd little station, with no apparent reason for existence,
perched up in the midst of green fields and country lanes. John Cavendish was
waiting on the platform, and piloted me out to the car.

&ldquo;Got a drop or two of petrol still, you see,&rdquo; he remarked.
&ldquo;Mainly owing to the mater&rsquo;s activities.&rdquo;

The village of Styles St. Mary was situated about two miles from the little
station, and Styles Court lay a mile the other side of it. It was a still, warm
day in early July. As one looked out over the flat Essex country, lying so
green and peaceful under the afternoon sun, it seemed almost impossible to
believe that, not so very far away, a great war was running its appointed
course. I felt I had suddenly strayed into another world. As we turned in at
the lodge gates, John said:

&ldquo;I&rsquo;m afraid you&rsquo;ll find it very quiet down here,
Hastings.&rdquo;

&ldquo;My dear fellow, that&rsquo;s just what I want.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s pleasant enough if you want to lead the idle life. I
drill with the volunteers twice a week, and lend a hand at the farms. My wife
works regularly &lsquo;on the land&rsquo;. She is up at five every morning to
milk, and keeps at it steadily until lunchtime. It&rsquo;s a jolly good life
taking it all round&mdash;if it weren&rsquo;t for that fellow Alfred
Inglethorp!&rdquo; He checked the car suddenly, and glanced at his watch.
&ldquo;I wonder if we&rsquo;ve time to pick up Cynthia. No, she&rsquo;ll have
started from the hospital by now.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Cynthia! That&rsquo;s not your wife?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, Cynthia is a protégée of my mother&rsquo;s, the daughter of an old
schoolfellow of hers, who married a rascally solicitor. He came a cropper, and
the girl was left an orphan and penniless. My mother came to the rescue, and
Cynthia has been with us nearly two years now. She works in the Red Cross
Hospital at Tadminster, seven miles away.&rdquo;

As he spoke the last words, we drew up in front of the fine old house. A lady
in a stout tweed skirt, who was bending over a flower bed, straightened herself
at our approach.

&ldquo;Hullo, Evie, here&rsquo;s our wounded hero! Mr. Hastings&mdash;Miss
Howard.&rdquo;

Miss Howard shook hands with a hearty, almost painful, grip. I had an
impression of very blue eyes in a sunburnt face. She was a pleasant-looking
woman of about forty, with a deep voice, almost manly in its stentorian tones,
and had a large sensible square body, with feet to match&mdash;these last
encased in good thick boots. Her conversation, I soon found, was couched in the
telegraphic style.

&ldquo;Weeds grow like house afire. Can&rsquo;t keep even with &rsquo;em. Shall
press you in. Better be careful.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I&rsquo;m sure I shall be only too delighted to make myself
useful,&rdquo; I responded.

&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t say it. Never does. Wish you hadn&rsquo;t later.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You&rsquo;re a cynic, Evie,&rdquo; said John, laughing.
&ldquo;Where&rsquo;s tea to-day&mdash;inside or out?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Out. Too fine a day to be cooped up in the house.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Come on then, you&rsquo;ve done enough gardening for to-day. &lsquo;The
labourer is worthy of his hire&rsquo;, you know. Come and be refreshed.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; said Miss Howard, drawing off her gardening gloves,
&ldquo;I&rsquo;m inclined to agree with you.&rdquo;

She led the way round the house to where tea was spread under the shade of a
large sycamore.

A figure rose from one of the basket chairs, and came a few steps to meet us.

&ldquo;My wife, Hastings,&rdquo; said John.

I shall never forget my first sight of Mary Cavendish. Her tall, slender form,
outlined against the bright light; the vivid sense of slumbering fire that
seemed to find expression only in those wonderful tawny eyes of hers,
remarkable eyes, different from any other woman&rsquo;s that I have ever known;
the intense power of stillness she possessed, which nevertheless conveyed the
impression of a wild untamed spirit in an exquisitely civilised body&mdash;all
these things are burnt into my memory. I shall never forget them.

She greeted me with a few words of pleasant welcome in a low clear voice, and I
sank into a basket chair feeling distinctly glad that I had accepted
John&rsquo;s invitation. Mrs. Cavendish gave me some tea, and her few quiet
remarks heightened my first impression of her as a thoroughly fascinating
woman. An appreciative listener is always stimulating, and I described, in a
humorous manner, certain incidents of my Convalescent Home, in a way which, I
flatter myself, greatly amused my hostess. John, of course, good fellow though
he is, could hardly be called a brilliant conversationalist.

At that moment a well remembered voice floated through the open French window
near at hand:

&ldquo;Then you&rsquo;ll write to the Princess after tea, Alfred? I&rsquo;ll
write to Lady Tadminster for the second day, myself. Or shall we wait until we
hear from the Princess? In case of a refusal, Lady Tadminster might open it the
first day, and Mrs. Crosbie the second. Then there&rsquo;s the
Duchess&mdash;about the school fête.&rdquo;

There was the murmur of a man&rsquo;s voice, and then Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s
rose in reply:

&ldquo;Yes, certainly. After tea will do quite well. You are so thoughtful,
Alfred dear.&rdquo;

The French window swung open a little wider, and a handsome white-haired old
lady, with a somewhat masterful cast of features, stepped out of it on to the
lawn. A man followed her, a suggestion of deference in his manner.

Mrs. Inglethorp greeted me with effusion.

&ldquo;Why, if it isn&rsquo;t too delightful to see you again, Mr. Hastings,
after all these years. Alfred, darling, Mr. Hastings&mdash;my husband.&rdquo;

I looked with some curiosity at &ldquo;Alfred darling&rdquo;. He certainly
struck a rather alien note. I did not wonder at John objecting to his beard. It
was one of the longest and blackest I have ever seen. He wore gold-rimmed
pince-nez, and had a curious impassivity of feature. It struck me that he might
look natural on a stage, but was strangely out of place in real life. His voice
was rather deep and unctuous. He placed a wooden hand in mine and said:

&ldquo;This is a pleasure, Mr. Hastings.&rdquo; Then, turning to his wife:
&ldquo;Emily dearest, I think that cushion is a little damp.&rdquo;

She beamed fondly on him, as he substituted another with every demonstration of
the tenderest care. Strange infatuation of an otherwise sensible woman!

With the presence of Mr. Inglethorp, a sense of constraint and veiled hostility
seemed to settle down upon the company. Miss Howard, in particular, took no
pains to conceal her feelings. Mrs. Inglethorp, however, seemed to notice
nothing unusual. Her volubility, which I remembered of old, had lost nothing in
the intervening years, and she poured out a steady flood of conversation,
mainly on the subject of the forthcoming bazaar which she was organizing and
which was to take place shortly. Occasionally she referred to her husband over
a question of days or dates. His watchful and attentive manner never varied.
From the very first I took a firm and rooted dislike to him, and I flatter
myself that my first judgments are usually fairly shrewd.

Presently Mrs. Inglethorp turned to give some instructions about letters to
Evelyn Howard, and her husband addressed me in his painstaking voice:

&ldquo;Is soldiering your regular profession, Mr. Hastings?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No, before the war I was in Lloyd&rsquo;s.&rdquo;

&ldquo;And you will return there after it is over?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Perhaps. Either that or a fresh start altogether.&rdquo;

Mary Cavendish leant forward.

&ldquo;What would you really choose as a profession, if you could just consult
your inclination?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, that depends.&rdquo;

&ldquo;No secret hobby?&rdquo; she asked. &ldquo;Tell me&mdash;you&rsquo;re
drawn to something? Everyone is&mdash;usually something absurd.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You&rsquo;ll laugh at me.&rdquo;

She smiled.

&ldquo;Perhaps.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, I&rsquo;ve always had a secret hankering to be a detective!&rdquo;

&ldquo;The real thing&mdash;Scotland Yard? Or Sherlock Holmes?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, Sherlock Holmes by all means. But really, seriously, I am awfully
drawn to it. I came across a man in Belgium once, a very famous detective, and
he quite inflamed me. He was a marvellous little fellow. He used to say that
all good detective work was a mere matter of method. My system is based on
his&mdash;though of course I have progressed rather further. He was a funny
little man, a great dandy, but wonderfully clever.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Like a good detective story myself,&rdquo; remarked Miss Howard.
&ldquo;Lots of nonsense written, though. Criminal discovered in last chapter.
Everyone dumbfounded. Real crime&mdash;you&rsquo;d know at once.&rdquo;

&ldquo;There have been a great number of undiscovered crimes,&rdquo; I argued.

&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t mean the police, but the people that are right in it. The
family. You couldn&rsquo;t really hoodwink them. They&rsquo;d know.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then,&rdquo; I said, much amused, &ldquo;you think that if you were
mixed up in a crime, say a murder, you&rsquo;d be able to spot the murderer
right off?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Of course I should. Mightn&rsquo;t be able to prove it to a pack of
lawyers. But I&rsquo;m certain I&rsquo;d know. I&rsquo;d feel it in my
fingertips if he came near me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;It might be a &lsquo;she&rsquo;,&rdquo; I suggested.

&ldquo;Might. But murder&rsquo;s a violent crime. Associate it more with a
man.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Not in a case of poisoning.&rdquo; Mrs. Cavendish&rsquo;s clear voice
startled me. &ldquo;Dr. Bauerstein was saying yesterday that, owing to the
general ignorance of the more uncommon poisons among the medical profession,
there were probably countless cases of poisoning quite unsuspected.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Why, Mary, what a gruesome conversation!&rdquo; cried Mrs. Inglethorp.
&ldquo;It makes me feel as if a goose were walking over my grave. Oh,
there&rsquo;s Cynthia!&rdquo;

A young girl in V.A.D. uniform ran lightly across the lawn.

&ldquo;Why, Cynthia, you are late to-day. This is Mr. Hastings&mdash;Miss
Murdoch.&rdquo;

Cynthia Murdoch was a fresh-looking young creature, full of life and vigour.
She tossed off her little V.A.D. cap, and I admired the great loose waves of
her auburn hair, and the smallness and whiteness of the hand she held out to
claim her tea. With dark eyes and eyelashes she would have been a beauty.

She flung herself down on the ground beside John, and as I handed her a plate
of sandwiches she smiled up at me.

&ldquo;Sit down here on the grass, do. It&rsquo;s ever so much nicer.&rdquo;

I dropped down obediently.

&ldquo;You work at Tadminster, don&rsquo;t you, Miss Murdoch?&rdquo;

She nodded.

&ldquo;For my sins.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Do they bully you, then?&rdquo; I asked, smiling.

&ldquo;I should like to see them!&rdquo; cried Cynthia with dignity.

&ldquo;I have got a cousin who is nursing,&rdquo; I remarked. &ldquo;And she is
terrified of &lsquo;Sisters&rsquo;.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t wonder. Sisters *are*, you know, Mr. Hastings. They
simp-ly *are*! You&rsquo;ve no idea! But I&rsquo;m not a nurse,
thank heaven, I work in the dispensary.&rdquo;

&ldquo;How many people do you poison?&rdquo; I asked, smiling.

Cynthia smiled too.

&ldquo;Oh, hundreds!&rdquo; she said.

&ldquo;Cynthia,&rdquo; called Mrs. Inglethorp, &ldquo;do you think you could
write a few notes for me?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Certainly, Aunt Emily.&rdquo;

She jumped up promptly, and something in her manner reminded me that her
position was a dependent one, and that Mrs. Inglethorp, kind as she might be in
the main, did not allow her to forget it.

My hostess turned to me.

&ldquo;John will show you your room. Supper is at half-past seven. We have
given up late dinner for some time now. Lady Tadminster, our Member&rsquo;s
wife&mdash;she was the late Lord Abbotsbury&rsquo;s daughter&mdash;does the
same. She agrees with me that one must set an example of economy. We are quite
a war household; nothing is wasted here&mdash;every scrap of waste paper, even,
is saved and sent away in sacks.&rdquo;

I expressed my appreciation, and John took me into the house and up the broad
staircase, which forked right and left half-way to different wings of the
building. My room was in the left wing, and looked out over the park.

John left me, and a few minutes later I saw him from my window walking slowly
across the grass arm in arm with Cynthia Murdoch. I heard Mrs. Inglethorp call
&ldquo;Cynthia&rdquo; impatiently, and the girl started and ran back to the
house. At the same moment, a man stepped out from the shadow of a tree and
walked slowly in the same direction. He looked about forty, very dark with a
melancholy clean-shaven face. Some violent emotion seemed to be mastering him.
He looked up at my window as he passed, and I recognized him, though he had
changed much in the fifteen years that had elapsed since we last met. It was
John&rsquo;s younger brother, Lawrence Cavendish. I wondered what it was that
had brought that singular expression to his face.

Then I dismissed him from my mind, and returned to the contemplation of my own
affairs.

The evening passed pleasantly enough; and I dreamed that night of that
enigmatical woman, Mary Cavendish.

The next morning dawned bright and sunny, and I was full of the anticipation of
a delightful visit.

I did not see Mrs. Cavendish until lunch-time, when she volunteered to take me
for a walk, and we spent a charming afternoon roaming in the woods, returning
to the house about five.

As we entered the large hall, John beckoned us both into the smoking-room. I
saw at once by his face that something disturbing had occurred. We followed him
in, and he shut the door after us.

&ldquo;Look here, Mary, there&rsquo;s the deuce of a mess. Evie&rsquo;s had a
row with Alfred Inglethorp, and she&rsquo;s off.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Evie? Off?&rdquo;

John nodded gloomily.

&ldquo;Yes; you see she went to the mater, and&mdash;Oh,&mdash;here&rsquo;s
Evie herself.&rdquo;

Miss Howard entered. Her lips were set grimly together, and she carried a small
suit-case. She looked excited and determined, and slightly on the defensive.

&ldquo;At any rate,&rdquo; she burst out, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve spoken my
mind!&rdquo;

&ldquo;My dear Evelyn,&rdquo; cried Mrs. Cavendish, &ldquo;this can&rsquo;t be
true!&rdquo;

Miss Howard nodded grimly.

&ldquo;True enough! Afraid I said some things to Emily she won&rsquo;t forget
or forgive in a hurry. Don&rsquo;t mind if they&rsquo;ve only sunk in a bit.
Probably water off a duck&rsquo;s back, though. I said right out:
&lsquo;You&rsquo;re an old woman, Emily, and there&rsquo;s no fool like an old
fool. The man&rsquo;s twenty years younger than you, and don&rsquo;t you fool
yourself as to what he married you for. Money! Well, don&rsquo;t let him have
too much of it. Farmer Raikes has got a very pretty young wife. Just ask your
Alfred how much time he spends over there.&rsquo; She was very angry. Natural!
I went on, &lsquo;I&rsquo;m going to warn you, whether you like it or not. That
man would as soon murder you in your bed as look at you. He&rsquo;s a bad lot.
You can say what you like to me, but remember what I&rsquo;ve told you.
He&rsquo;s a bad lot!&rsquo;&rdquo;

&ldquo;What did she say?&rdquo;

Miss Howard made an extremely expressive grimace.

&ldquo;&lsquo;Darling Alfred&rsquo;&mdash;&lsquo;dearest
Alfred&rsquo;&mdash;&lsquo;wicked calumnies&rsquo; &mdash;&lsquo;wicked
lies&rsquo;&mdash;&lsquo;wicked woman&rsquo;&mdash;to accuse her &lsquo;dear
husband!&rsquo; The sooner I left her house the better. So I&rsquo;m
off.&rdquo;

&ldquo;But not now?&rdquo;

&ldquo;This minute!&rdquo;

For a moment we sat and stared at her. Finally John Cavendish, finding his
persuasions of no avail, went off to look up the trains. His wife followed him,
murmuring something about persuading Mrs. Inglethorp to think better of it.

As she left the room, Miss Howard&rsquo;s face changed. She leant towards me
eagerly.

&ldquo;Mr. Hastings, you&rsquo;re honest. I can trust you?&rdquo;

I was a little startled. She laid her hand on my arm, and sank her voice to a
whisper.

&ldquo;Look after her, Mr. Hastings. My poor Emily. They&rsquo;re a lot of
sharks&mdash;all of them. Oh, I know what I&rsquo;m talking about. There
isn&rsquo;t one of them that&rsquo;s not hard up and trying to get money out of
her. I&rsquo;ve protected her as much as I could. Now I&rsquo;m out of the way,
they&rsquo;ll impose upon her.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Of course, Miss Howard,&rdquo; I said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll do everything I
can, but I&rsquo;m sure you&rsquo;re excited and overwrought.&rdquo;

She interrupted me by slowly shaking her forefinger.

&ldquo;Young man, trust me. I&rsquo;ve lived in the world rather longer than
you have. All I ask you is to keep your eyes open. You&rsquo;ll see what I
mean.&rdquo;

The throb of the motor came through the open window, and Miss Howard rose and
moved to the door. John&rsquo;s voice sounded outside. With her hand on the
handle, she turned her head over her shoulder, and beckoned to me.

&ldquo;Above all, Mr. Hastings, watch that devil&mdash;her husband!&rdquo;

There was no time for more. Miss Howard was swallowed up in an eager chorus of
protests and good-byes. The Inglethorps did not appear.

As the motor drove away, Mrs. Cavendish suddenly detached herself from the
group, and moved across the drive to the lawn to meet a tall bearded man who
had been evidently making for the house. The colour rose in her cheeks as she
held out her hand to him.

&ldquo;Who is that?&rdquo; I asked sharply, for instinctively I distrusted the
man.

&ldquo;That&rsquo;s Dr. Bauerstein,&rdquo; said John shortly.

&ldquo;And who is Dr. Bauerstein?&rdquo;

&ldquo;He&rsquo;s staying in the village doing a rest cure, after a bad nervous
breakdown. He&rsquo;s a London specialist; a very clever man&mdash;one of the
greatest living experts on poisons, I believe.&rdquo;

&ldquo;And he&rsquo;s a great friend of Mary&rsquo;s,&rdquo; put in Cynthia,
the irrepressible.

John Cavendish frowned and changed the subject.

&ldquo;Come for a stroll, Hastings. This has been a most rotten business. She
always had a rough tongue, but there is no stauncher friend in England than
Evelyn Howard.&rdquo;

He took the path through the plantation, and we walked down to the village
through the woods which bordered one side of the estate.

As we passed through one of the gates on our way home again, a pretty young
woman of gipsy type coming in the opposite direction bowed and smiled.

&ldquo;That&rsquo;s a pretty girl,&rdquo; I remarked appreciatively.

John&rsquo;s face hardened.

&ldquo;That is Mrs. Raikes.&rdquo;

&ldquo;The one that Miss Howard&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo;

&ldquo;Exactly,&rdquo; said John, with rather unnecessary abruptness.

I thought of the white-haired old lady in the big house, and that vivid wicked
little face that had just smiled into ours, and a vague chill of foreboding
crept over me. I brushed it aside.

&ldquo;Styles is really a glorious old place,&rdquo; I said to John.

He nodded rather gloomily.

&ldquo;Yes, it&rsquo;s a fine property. It&rsquo;ll be mine some
day&mdash;should be mine now by rights, if my father had only made a decent
will. And then I shouldn&rsquo;t be so damned hard up as I am now.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Hard up, are you?&rdquo;

&ldquo;My dear Hastings, I don&rsquo;t mind telling you that I&rsquo;m at my
wits&rsquo; end for money.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Couldn&rsquo;t your brother help you?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Lawrence? He&rsquo;s gone through every penny he ever had, publishing
rotten verses in fancy bindings. No, we&rsquo;re an impecunious lot. My
mother&rsquo;s always been awfully good to us, I must say. That is, up to now.
Since her marriage, of course&mdash;&mdash;&rdquo; he broke off, frowning.

For the first time I felt that, with Evelyn Howard, something indefinable had
gone from the atmosphere. Her presence had spelt security. Now that security
was removed&mdash;and the air seemed rife with suspicion. The sinister face of
Dr. Bauerstein recurred to me unpleasantly. A vague suspicion of everyone and
everything filled my mind. Just for a moment I had a premonition of approaching
evil.
