CHAPTER II.<br/>
THE 16TH AND 17TH OF JULY</h2>

I had arrived at Styles on the 5th of July. I come now to the events of the
16th and 17th of that month. For the convenience of the reader I will
recapitulate the incidents of those days in as exact a manner as possible. They
were elicited subsequently at the trial by a process of long and tedious
cross-examinations.

I received a letter from Evelyn Howard a couple of days after her departure,
telling me she was working as a nurse at the big hospital in Middlingham, a
manufacturing town some fifteen miles away, and begging me to let her know if
Mrs. Inglethorp should show any wish to be reconciled.

The only fly in the ointment of my peaceful days was Mrs. Cavendish&rsquo;s
extraordinary, and, for my part, unaccountable preference for the society of
Dr. Bauerstein. What she saw in the man I cannot imagine, but she was always
asking him up to the house, and often went off for long expeditions with him. I
must confess that I was quite unable to see his attraction.

The 16th of July fell on a Monday. It was a day of turmoil. The famous bazaar
had taken place on Saturday, and an entertainment, in connection with the same
charity, at which Mrs. Inglethorp was to recite a War poem, was to be held that
night. We were all busy during the morning arranging and decorating the Hall in
the village where it was to take place. We had a late luncheon and spent the
afternoon resting in the garden. I noticed that John&rsquo;s manner was
somewhat unusual. He seemed very excited and restless.

After tea, Mrs. Inglethorp went to lie down to rest before her efforts in the
evening and I challenged Mary Cavendish to a single at tennis.

About a quarter to seven, Mrs. Inglethorp called us that we should be late as
supper was early that night. We had rather a scramble to get ready in time; and
before the meal was over the motor was waiting at the door.

The entertainment was a great success, Mrs. Inglethorp&rsquo;s recitation
receiving tremendous applause. There were also some tableaux in which Cynthia
took part. She did not return with us, having been asked to a supper party, and
to remain the night with some friends who had been acting with her in the
tableaux.

The following morning, Mrs. Inglethorp stayed in bed to breakfast, as she was
rather overtired; but she appeared in her briskest mood about 12.30, and swept
Lawrence and myself off to a luncheon party.

&ldquo;Such a charming invitation from Mrs. Rolleston. Lady Tadminster&rsquo;s
sister, you know. The Rollestons came over with the Conqueror&mdash;one of our
oldest families.&rdquo;

Mary had excused herself on the plea of an engagement with Dr. Bauerstein.

We had a pleasant luncheon, and as we drove away Lawrence suggested that we
should return by Tadminster, which was barely a mile out of our way, and pay a
visit to Cynthia in her dispensary. Mrs. Inglethorp replied that this was an
excellent idea, but as she had several letters to write she would drop us
there, and we could come back with Cynthia in the pony-trap.

We were detained under suspicion by the hospital porter, until Cynthia appeared
to vouch for us, looking very cool and sweet in her long white overall. She
took us up to her sanctum, and introduced us to her fellow dispenser, a rather
awe-inspiring individual, whom Cynthia cheerily addressed as
&ldquo;Nibs.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What a lot of bottles!&rdquo; I exclaimed, as my eye travelled round the
small room. &ldquo;Do you really know what&rsquo;s in them all?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Say something original,&rdquo; groaned Cynthia. &ldquo;Every single
person who comes up here says that. We are really thinking of bestowing a prize
on the first individual who does *not* say: &lsquo;What a lot of
bottles!&rsquo; And I know the next thing you&rsquo;re going to say is:
&lsquo;How many people have you poisoned?&rsquo;&rdquo;

I pleaded guilty with a laugh.

&ldquo;If you people only knew how fatally easy it is to poison someone by
mistake, you wouldn&rsquo;t joke about it. Come on, let&rsquo;s have tea.
We&rsquo;ve got all sorts of secret stores in that cupboard. No,
Lawrence&mdash;that&rsquo;s the poison cupboard. The big
cupboard&mdash;that&rsquo;s right.&rdquo;

We had a very cheery tea, and assisted Cynthia to wash up afterwards. We had
just put away the last tea-spoon when a knock came at the door. The
countenances of Cynthia and Nibs were suddenly petrified into a stern and
forbidding expression.

&ldquo;Come in,&rdquo; said Cynthia, in a sharp professional tone.

A young and rather scared looking nurse appeared with a bottle which she
proffered to Nibs, who waved her towards Cynthia with the somewhat enigmatical
remark:

&ldquo;*I*&rsquo;m not really here to-day.&rdquo;

Cynthia took the bottle and examined it with the severity of a judge.

&ldquo;This should have been sent up this morning.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Sister is very sorry. She forgot.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Sister should read the rules outside the door.&rdquo;

I gathered from the little nurse&rsquo;s expression that there was not the
least likelihood of her having the hardihood to retail this message to the
dreaded &ldquo;Sister&rdquo;.

&ldquo;So now it can&rsquo;t be done until to-morrow,&rdquo; finished Cynthia.

&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you think you could possibly let us have it to-night?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; said Cynthia graciously, &ldquo;we are very busy, but if we
have time it shall be done.&rdquo;

The little nurse withdrew, and Cynthia promptly took a jar from the shelf,
refilled the bottle, and placed it on the table outside the door.

I laughed.

&ldquo;Discipline must be maintained?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Exactly. Come out on our little balcony. You can see all the outside
wards there.&rdquo;

I followed Cynthia and her friend and they pointed out the different wards to
me. Lawrence remained behind, but after a few moments Cynthia called to him
over her shoulder to come and join us. Then she looked at her watch.

&ldquo;Nothing more to do, Nibs?&rdquo;

&ldquo;No.&rdquo;

&ldquo;All right. Then we can lock up and go.&rdquo;

I had seen Lawrence in quite a different light that afternoon. Compared to
John, he was an astoundingly difficult person to get to know. He was the
opposite of his brother in almost every respect, being unusually shy and
reserved. Yet he had a certain charm of manner, and I fancied that, if one
really knew him well, one could have a deep affection for him. I had always
fancied that his manner to Cynthia was rather constrained, and that she on her
side was inclined to be shy of him. But they were both gay enough this
afternoon, and chatted together like a couple of children.

As we drove through the village, I remembered that I wanted some stamps, so
accordingly we pulled up at the post office.

As I came out again, I cannoned into a little man who was just entering. I drew
aside and apologised, when suddenly, with a loud exclamation, he clasped me in
his arms and kissed me warmly.

&ldquo;*Mon ami* Hastings!&rdquo; he cried. &ldquo;It is indeed *mon
ami* Hastings!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Poirot!&rdquo; I exclaimed.

I turned to the pony-trap.

&ldquo;This is a very pleasant meeting for me, Miss Cynthia. This is my old
friend, Monsieur Poirot, whom I have not seen for years.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Oh, we know Monsieur Poirot,&rdquo; said Cynthia gaily. &ldquo;But I had
no idea he was a friend of yours.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, indeed,&rdquo; said Poirot seriously. &ldquo;I know Mademoiselle
Cynthia. It is by the charity of that good Mrs. Inglethorp that I am
here.&rdquo; Then, as I looked at him inquiringly: &ldquo;Yes, my friend, she
had kindly extended hospitality to seven of my countrypeople who, alas, are
refugees from their native land. We Belgians will always remember her with
gratitude.&rdquo;

Poirot was an extraordinary looking little man. He was hardly more than five
feet, four inches, but carried himself with great dignity. His head was exactly
the shape of an egg, and he always perched it a little on one side. His
moustache was very stiff and military. The neatness of his attire was almost
incredible. I believe a speck of dust would have caused him more pain than a
bullet wound. Yet this quaint dandified little man who, I was sorry to see, now
limped badly, had been in his time one of the most celebrated members of the
Belgian police. As a detective, his *flair* had been extraordinary, and he had
achieved triumphs by unravelling some of the most baffling cases of the day.

He pointed out to me the little house inhabited by him and his fellow Belgians,
and I promised to go and see him at an early date. Then he raised his hat with
a flourish to Cynthia, and we drove away.

&ldquo;He&rsquo;s a dear little man,&rdquo; said Cynthia. &ldquo;I&rsquo;d no
idea you knew him.&rdquo;

&ldquo;You&rsquo;ve been entertaining a celebrity unawares,&rdquo; I replied.

And, for the rest of the way home, I recited to them the various exploits and
triumphs of Hercule Poirot.

We arrived back in a very cheerful mood. As we entered the hall, Mrs.
Inglethorp came out of her boudoir. She looked flushed and upset.

&ldquo;Oh, it&rsquo;s you,&rdquo; she said.

&ldquo;Is there anything the matter, Aunt Emily?&rdquo; asked Cynthia.

&ldquo;Certainly not,&rdquo; said Mrs. Inglethorp sharply. &ldquo;What should
there be?&rdquo; Then catching sight of Dorcas, the parlourmaid, going into the
dining-room, she called to her to bring some stamps into the boudoir.

&ldquo;Yes, m&rsquo;m.&rdquo; The old servant hesitated, then added
diffidently: &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t you think, m&rsquo;m, you&rsquo;d better get to
bed? You&rsquo;re looking very tired.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Perhaps you&rsquo;re right, Dorcas&mdash;yes&mdash;no&mdash;not now.
I&rsquo;ve some letters I must finish by post-time. Have you lighted the fire
in my room as I told you?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Yes, m&rsquo;m.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then I&rsquo;ll go to bed directly after supper.&rdquo;

She went into the boudoir again, and Cynthia stared after her.

&ldquo;Goodness gracious! I wonder what&rsquo;s up?&rdquo; she said to
Lawrence.

He did not seem to have heard her, for without a word he turned on his heel and
went out of the house.

I suggested a quick game of tennis before supper and, Cynthia agreeing, I ran
upstairs to fetch my racquet.

Mrs. Cavendish was coming down the stairs. It may have been my fancy, but she,
too, was looking odd and disturbed.

&ldquo;Had a good walk with Dr. Bauerstein?&rdquo; I asked, trying to appear as
indifferent as I could.

&ldquo;I didn&rsquo;t go,&rdquo; she replied abruptly. &ldquo;Where is Mrs.
Inglethorp?&rdquo;

&ldquo;In the boudoir.&rdquo;

Her hand clenched itself on the banisters, then she seemed to nerve herself for
some encounter, and went rapidly past me down the stairs across the hall to the
boudoir, the door of which she shut behind her.

As I ran out to the tennis court a few moments later, I had to pass the open
boudoir window, and was unable to help overhearing the following scrap of
dialogue. Mary Cavendish was saying in the voice of a woman desperately
controlling herself:

&ldquo;Then you won&rsquo;t show it to me?&rdquo;

To which Mrs. Inglethorp replied:

&ldquo;My dear Mary, it has nothing to do with that matter.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Then show it to me.&rdquo;

&ldquo;I tell you it is not what you imagine. It does not concern you in the
least.&rdquo;

To which Mary Cavendish replied, with a rising bitterness:

&ldquo;Of course, I might have known you would shield him.&rdquo;

Cynthia was waiting for me, and greeted me eagerly with:

&ldquo;I say! There&rsquo;s been the most awful row! I&rsquo;ve got it all out
of Dorcas.&rdquo;

&ldquo;What kind of a row?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Between Aunt Emily and *him*. I do hope she&rsquo;s found him out
at last!&rdquo;

&ldquo;Was Dorcas there, then?&rdquo;

&ldquo;Of course not. She &lsquo;happened to be near the door&rsquo;. It was a
real old bust-up. I do wish I knew what it was all about.&rdquo;

I thought of Mrs. Raikes&rsquo;s gipsy face, and Evelyn Howard&rsquo;s
warnings, but wisely decided to hold my peace, whilst Cynthia exhausted every
possible hypothesis, and cheerfully hoped, &ldquo;Aunt Emily will send him
away, and will never speak to him again.&rdquo;

I was anxious to get hold of John, but he was nowhere to be seen. Evidently
something very momentous had occurred that afternoon. I tried to forget the few
words I had overheard; but, do what I would, I could not dismiss them
altogether from my mind. What was Mary Cavendish&rsquo;s concern in the matter?

Mr. Inglethorp was in the drawing-room when I came down to supper. His face was
impassive as ever, and the strange unreality of the man struck me afresh.

Mrs. Inglethorp came down last. She still looked agitated, and during the meal
there was a somewhat constrained silence. Inglethorp was unusually quiet. As a
rule, he surrounded his wife with little attentions, placing a cushion at her
back, and altogether playing the part of the devoted husband. Immediately after
supper, Mrs. Inglethorp retired to her boudoir again.

&ldquo;Send my coffee in here, Mary,&rdquo; she called. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve just
five minutes to catch the post.&rdquo;

Cynthia and I went and sat by the open window in the drawing-room. Mary
Cavendish brought our coffee to us. She seemed excited.

&ldquo;Do you young people want lights, or do you enjoy the twilight?&rdquo;
she asked. &ldquo;Will you take Mrs. Inglethorp her coffee, Cynthia? I will
pour it out.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Do not trouble, Mary,&rdquo; said Inglethorp. &ldquo;I will take it to
Emily.&rdquo; He poured it out, and went out of the room carrying it carefully.

Lawrence followed him, and Mrs. Cavendish sat down by us.

We three sat for some time in silence. It was a glorious night, hot and still.
Mrs. Cavendish fanned herself gently with a palm leaf.

&ldquo;It&rsquo;s almost too hot,&rdquo; she murmured. &ldquo;We shall have a
thunderstorm.&rdquo;

Alas, that these harmonious moments can never endure! My paradise was rudely
shattered by the sound of a well known, and heartily disliked, voice in the
hall.

&ldquo;Dr. Bauerstein!&rdquo; exclaimed Cynthia. &ldquo;What a funny time to
come.&rdquo;

I glanced jealously at Mary Cavendish, but she seemed quite undisturbed, the
delicate pallor of her cheeks did not vary.

In a few moments, Alfred Inglethorp had ushered the doctor in, the latter
laughing, and protesting that he was in no fit state for a drawing-room. In
truth, he presented a sorry spectacle, being literally plastered with mud.

&ldquo;What have you been doing, doctor?&rdquo; cried Mrs. Cavendish.

&ldquo;I must make my apologies,&rdquo; said the doctor. &ldquo;I did not
really mean to come in, but Mr. Inglethorp insisted.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Well, Bauerstein, you are in a plight,&rdquo; said John, strolling in
from the hall. &ldquo;Have some coffee, and tell us what you have been up
to.&rdquo;

&ldquo;Thank you, I will.&rdquo; He laughed rather ruefully, as he described
how he had discovered a very rare species of fern in an inaccessible place, and
in his efforts to obtain it had lost his footing, and slipped ignominiously
into a neighbouring pond.

&ldquo;The sun soon dried me off,&rdquo; he added, &ldquo;but I&rsquo;m afraid
my appearance is very disreputable.&rdquo;

At this juncture, Mrs. Inglethorp called to Cynthia from the hall, and the girl
ran out.

&ldquo;Just carry up my despatch-case, will you, dear? I&rsquo;m going to
bed.&rdquo;

The door into the hall was a wide one. I had risen when Cynthia did, John was
close by me. There were therefore three witnesses who could swear that Mrs.
Inglethorp was carrying her coffee, as yet untasted, in her hand.

My evening was utterly and entirely spoilt by the presence of Dr. Bauerstein.
It seemed to me the man would never go. He rose at last, however, and I
breathed a sigh of relief.

&ldquo;I&rsquo;ll walk down to the village with you,&rdquo; said Mr.
Inglethorp. &ldquo;I must see our agent over those estate accounts.&rdquo; He
turned to John. &ldquo;No one need sit up. I will take the latch-key.&rdquo;
